Pietermaritzburg's very own 14-year-old motivational speaker, model and peer counsellor, Alutta Maphanga, has her heart set on helping her peers thrive. The Russell High School Grade 8 pupil from Henley Dam said after losing her father when she was nine years old, she dedicated her life to helping youngsters who have lost their parents cope with their loss. “It is very common, especially in black communities, for people to assume that when a child loses one or both of their parents they will be okay and get over it eventually, which is not true.  “In most cases children never get over the pain of losing their parents and they carry that pain even through to their adult life, which is not good,” she said. Alutta runs an organisation called Alutta Labyrinth with the help of her family. She said the organisation offers holistic support for young orphaned children and also collects and donates food vouchers for poverty stricken children and sanitary pads for school girls. “We have two qualified counsellors and I also counsel those who prefer speaking to someone who is their age and has been through a similar situation.” Alutta said the death of her father left her shattered. “His death tore my heart apart. He died a few days before my birthday and when my birthday came he was at the mortuary. It was a very difficult time for me but I managed to get through that pain with support from my family,” she said. Next Saturday, on December 9, Alutta will be speaking at a 16 Days of Activism event about the scourge of child killings. “I will be raising awareness about the killing of children and want to make people realise that by killing us, they are killing the future of South Africa,” she said. Alutta, who is also a model, said she wants to see her organisation growing and be able to assist children anywhere in South Africa.  After completing matric, she plans to study financial management with hopes of becoming a nationally acclaimed businesswoman. “I want to tell young people that it is okay to dream but they also need to have a vision and a plan that will help them achieve their dreams ... I don’t have much but I try to use the little that I have to help those with nothing,” she said. Alutta said those who want to attend her 16 Days of Activism event are welcome. It takes place at the KwaZulu-Natal Museum on Jabu Ndlovu Street on December 9 and starts at 9 am.