A successful Edendale businesswoman and her husband are facing charges of dealing in drugs valued at about R400 000. Thembile Radebe (44) and her husband, Thembani Maphumulo (36), were this week granted bail of R20 000 each at the Pietermaritzburg Magistrate’s Court. The couple were arrested at Radebe’s Edendale home two weeks ago when members of the Hawks seized nearly 4 000 mandrax tablets, 29 straws and three packs of heroin, and 44 plastic packets of cocaine. It emerged during their bail application that the Hawks also allegedly found R320 000 in cash at the home. The case was adjourned to the end of January for further investigation. As a bail condition, the couple have to report to Plessislaer police station every Monday. In affidavits in support of bail, both Radebe and Maphumulo said the drugs had been found inside a locked bedroom which is used by Radebe’s sister. Both alleged that authorities had searched the home because they were working on a tip-off that a “female with a nose stud had drugs on the premises”. The couple allege they were arrested as a result of that tip-off. “They arrested my husband and I despite the fact that the drugs were not found in our possession,” said Radebe’s affidavit. According to the affidavit, she owns a construction company whose assets are valued at about R1 million. She gets an income of about R100 000 a month from the company and employs several staff members. Radebe also owns an eight-bedroom home in Hilton valued at R1,7 million, according to the affidavit. She had a prior conviction of possession of cocaine in 1998. “My previous conviction is almost 20 years old and certainly does not indicate any propensity by me to commit a crime,” she said in the affidavit. Maphumulo’s affidavit revealed that he lives in Hilton and owns minibus taxis that transport school children. He is currently facing another charge for the possession of ammunition, for which he was out on bail. Maphumulo had a 2005 conviction of assault but was handed a suspended sentence.