Maritzburg United head coach Fadlu Davids says he has no
concerns over the form of attacking midfielder Yazid Atouba despite his
underwhelming start to life at the Midlands club. The Cameroonian international joined the Team of Choice from
Democratic Republic of Congo giants AS Vita Club at the start of the 2017/18
season, to give coach Davids options in attacking midfield following the
departure of former captain Kurt Lentjies. The 24-year-old left-winger has made six appearances for the
club in all competitions to date, but missed two matches through suspension
after picking up a second yellow card on his debut against SuperSport United in
the MTN8 semi-finals. He has yet to find his scoring boots for the struggling
Pietermaritzburg outfit, though, who have now gone eight Absa Premiership
matches without a win or a goal of their own.  They currently occupy 11th spot on the table, with 11 points
from 10 outings. Nevertheless, Davids sees no reason for concern, saying he
was happy with Atouba’s contribution in their goalless stalemate at home
against Bidvest Wits over the weekend. “The positive sign in our last game was Yazid Atouba’s
attacking. It’s different coming from another country, when you put a lot on your
shoulders to fill the void that Kurt Lentjies left. But he’s settling in well.  “He can only grow from strength to strength while getting
used to the environment of the league, the intensity, the physicality and the
pace.  “The PSL [Premier Soccer League] is surprisingly fast for
these guys who come from countries north of us. So, it’s a positive sign that
he’s getting better and better. The team has to improve together — and I
believe they can improve.” The attacking midfielder‚ who has five caps for Cameroon and
two goals to his name, has previously been on the books of Chicago Fire in
America, as well as Cameroon giants Canon Yaounde and Coton Sport. Davids, who has said on several occasions that his side are
playing better than their results suggest, admitted that their lack of a killer
instinct was concerning.  “In my team talk, I always tell them that each and every
player going onto the pitch must have the mindset that ‘I’m going to score
today [Wednesday]’, besides the goalkeeper, or ‘I’m assisting today [Wednesday]’,
to have that goal-orientated mindset and not just playing nice football with no
end result,” he said. Asked whether they had plans to make further additions in
the January transfer window, Davids responded: “We have to look deeper into our
development first. But, as a coach you’re always looking and analysing. But I
believe in the squad we have, though we do need to strengthen it to increase
competition to be able to give us that X-factor. “We lost hugely in Mlondi Dlamini [who died recently]. He
was able to unlock teams and create something out of nothing.  “What he had was what Kurt has, but we have to create better
attacking structures to suit our players to be able to score goals.  “We can’t be crying about Lentjies leaving and losing Mlondi
all the time.” Maritzburg have a bye-week before travelling to Cape Town
City next Tuesday, December 5.