If someone had told the Sharks’ enterprising wing S’bu Nkosi at the beginning of the year that he was going to be one of the star players for the side in the recently completed season, the youngster wouldn’t have bothered to give that person much attention.  That’s because Nkosi had never imagined that sort of thing happening anytime soon, instead the 21-year-old’s big aim was to just get a few senior team caps to his name. However, the Mpumalanga-born player punched above his weight to own the number 11 jersey and he contributed immensely to a satisfactory season for the men from Durban. Nkosi’s top displays on the left wing helped the Sharks reach the Super Rugby quarter-finals and the Currie Cup final, which he had to miss because of a dislocated elbow. The youngster’s exceptional work for the Sharks also saw him being selected for the Springboks in the Rugby Championship in September, though he didn’t spend much time in camp. He was expected to be part of the Boks’ end of the year tour, but then the elbow problem sidelined him.  His hard work was again recognised at the Sharks players awards last week when he was named the Breakthrough Performer of the Year.  “I’m very happy about this achievement, to be honest, I wasn’t expecting it. I think this year for me was about getting a few caps in the senior side, but the way things happened I managed to break through when I got the chance,” said Nkosi. “The injury definitely got in the way of some things, I think the Springbok one is the biggest, but as I said, I’m way ahead of where I thought I would be this year. Though I missed the end of the year tour, I still had a good year and I won’t let it get me down. I will take it as a challenge and I will get back a stronger player.” Nkosi admitted that playing in his first Currie Cup final would have been quite a good experience for him as a youngster but he also said he wasn’t too emotional about it. “I’m sad we lost the final [to Western Province], but I think the guys gave it their all,” he said. “I’ve played in a Super Rugby quarter-final and Currie Cup semi-final, so I’ve got a good idea of what it’s like to play under a high amount of pressure.  “I think I’ve now got good experience in that sense.” 