Ryan Strudwick has expressed disappointment at his sudden axing by the Sharks and is demanding a formal explanation from the Durban franchise as they start preparing for Super Rugby season. The three-year relationship between Strudwick and the Sharks came to an end last week as they brought back Dick Muir to work with head coach Robert du Preez as his assistant in the senior team. The return of Muir meant both Strudwick and Sean Everitt had to make way for the former Springbok assistant coach, but Everitt was redeployed to the outfit’s junior ranks. Strudwick is gutted that he is completely out of the union and has settled for a job as sports director at private school Michaelhouse despite him offering to take a demotion to the Sharks’ juniors. “I’m very disappointed, it would have been great to stay at the Sharks. I mean things were going well and we were building on a nice three-year plan, but unfortunately, things don’t always go according to plan,” said Strudwick on Monday. “No, they didn’t give me explanations or reasons behind the decision not to renew the contract. I have requested the reasons and I’m still waiting, before the end of this week.” The 43-year-old said he was still willing to move back and serve on the junior structures where he had started at the Sharks. Before taking a senior team role at the Sharks, he worked with the franchise’s U19 and U21 sides, as well as at Maritzburg College as a director of rugby. “I did offer my services to work in the Sharks junior structures, but they said they don’t have any place for me. “It is time to move on now,” said Strud­wick. However, the experience gained in Durban could help take Michaelhouse to greater heights.“The time spent at the Sharks was definitely a great experience, I have been there full-time for the past three years and really enjoyed my time there,” he said. “The school’s systems are really trying to improve sports, but until I get there I don’t want to make too many speculations. I just want to see how things are run and then just make some adjustments from there.” 