Most would expect the coach of a side facing the star-studded Titans to be shaken, at least a little, but that’s not the case with the Dolphins’ Grant Morgan. Morgan is rather looking forward to watching his outfit attempt to pull off an upset of the RAM SLAM T20 Challenge runaway leaders, who are filled with Proteas regulars, on Friday night. The two sides meet in a top-of-the-table clash at Willowmoore Park in Benoni at 6 pm, but the Titans actually enjoy an 11-point lead over the second-placed Dolphins, who are determined to narrow the sizeable difference in the standings. The Titans are the only side in the competition who have managed to win all four matches they have played, and are at the summit with 19 points. The Dolphins missed a chance to reduce the gap as their match against the Warriors in Durban was washed out on Wednesday. Morgan admits that coming up against the Titans side who have as many as 11 national team players in their set-up could be reason for many to worry, but for him, it’s a chance to judge the progress of his side. “I’ve spent half of my coaching career trying to coach sides to be better teams. I would coach the B team to beat the A side in a warm-up game. Yes, it would be great to play them, I say great because what better way to know where you are at than to play against the so-called international side locally and you are able to try to beat them with all their guys,” said Morgan. In their squad, the Titans have Proteas players such as AB de Villiers, Faf du Plessis, Quinton de Kock, Aiden Markram, Lungi Ngidi, Dean Elgar, Morne Morkel, Chris Morris and Dale Steyn. The Dolphins have Imran Tahir, Andile Phehlukwayo and Keshav Maharaj in their squad who are also Proteas. “With regards to Tahir, his pressure and dominance can be exacted in different ways. Having his name on the team sheet can destabilise other teams; our bowling pattern will be something that they would be very aware of.  “He can divert the attention of the other team,” said Morgan. “He worked hard in the past few days and I think he can just get in the heat of this tournament for us. So it’s great to have him back.” RAM SLAM T20 CHALLENGE FIXTURESFriday Cobras v Lions — 6 pmKnights v Warriors — 6 pmTitans v Dolphins — 6 pm SundayWarriors v Lions — 12 pmCobras v Knights — 4 pm 