Dolphins captain Khaya Zondo has admitted that seeing most of their RAM SLAM T20 Challenge games get washed out has been a frustrating experience, although they still got points from those matches.  The Dolphins have every reason to feel that the weather gods are working against them in their plot to bring the T20 Challenge title to Durban, as they have had three of their matches end in a no-result because of rain. On Friday, the rain followed them from Durban to Benoni where they were scheduled to face the high-flying Titans, but play was not possible. In fact, of their five fixtures in the tournament so far the Durban franchise have played only one full game, against the Highveld Lions. Though they managed to claim a victory over the Cape Cobras in their opening match, that match was also affected by rain.But they will be hoping for a break from bad weather when they play the Cobras again on Friday at Kingsmead Stadium at 6 pm. Despite not getting a chance to play last week, Zondo and his side were consoled by staying in second spot on the T20 Challenge log table with 10 points from their five assignments, 11 points behind the top-of-the-table Titans. “It is what it is, but it’s unfortunate that we haven’t gotten to play three of our games,” he said. “But we take the positives out of it. We take two points, at least we get something out of it because there have been some really good teams who have lost a lot of their games and they haven’t got any points from them,” said Zondo. “So, let’s accept what we get in terms of rained-out games. You can’t say what was going to happen in a rained-out match had it gone ahead, so we take the two points. “But obviously we would like the opportunity to play for the whole four points on offer.”  Zondo said the rain had also denied them a chance to build momentum after opening their season on a high note against the Cobras. “It is always nice to have game-time under your belt and get into some sort of a rhythm. So, it can be a little frustrating that we have actually played only one full game. The other game, against the Cobras, was also rain-affected, so we played one-and-a-half games up to date!” said Zondo. “It’s a bit bad that we are not playing all the time, but we have another five games now in nine days, so there is a chance to play a lot of cricket in a short space of time.”  Before the Cobras go to Durban on Friday, they will first entertain the Warriors on Wednesday at Boland Park while the Lions host the Titans in Johannesburg. Both matches start at 6 pm. Meanwhile, KwaZulu-Natal Inland suffered their first defeat in the CSA One-Day Cup to the Northerns on Sunday, after the two sides drew their Sunfoil Three-Day Cup match on Saturday. 