If you were stressing about being behind on your municipal payments then stress no more because Msunduzi Municipality is offering a “Black Month” discount on your outstanding arrears. On Thursday the City published an advertisement in The Witness offering up to 50% discount on outstanding arrears running from on Thursday until December 22, 2017.  City spokesperson Thobeka Mafumbatha said the idea came from the municipality’s revenue management.  “We are trying to divert the attention of consumers from buying goods on a Black Friday to rather focus on reducing their debts,” she said. Mafumbatha said it was not the first time that the City has had an “amnesty” period as earlier this year they had given certain people reductions on their payments. She said by offering discounts on arrears, they were hoping to reduce the escalation of the debtors book and ultimately to increase the City’s revenue.  “People must come forward to avoid the next step of their accounts being handed over, which will ultimately result in the attachments of their assets.” She explained that people with debts over 120 days qualified for the “Black Month” discount and that the 50% was applicable to service charges with the exclusion of rates.  However, on rates interest, charges and penalties accrued on property rates will be considered for a 50% discount. Mafumbatha said there was a little something for all regular payers as they will be getting a one percent deduction from their total debt. “Regular payers must watch the space, there is going to be a big surprise for them.  “Walala Wasala [you sleep, you lose]. We encourage all our citizens to keep their accounts fully paid,” she said. The discounts on offer are as follows: • 50% discount on services arrears due as at June 2017 for domestic debtors. • 30% discount on services arrears due as at June 2017 for business debtors. • 100% discount on interest outstanding on rates arrears. The discount is only available provided the debt is paid in full and no payment arrangements will be allowed. For discount inquires please call 033 3922 3078 or e-mail blackmonth@msunduzi.gov.za City dept owed rent of R31 mln Msunduzi's Human Settlements Unit is owed R31,5 million rent for council-owned flats.In June, the unit collected only 45,9% of what was due to the council, the municipality’s Executive Committee meeting heard on Thursday. The unit’s report tabled before the committee on Thursday, said arrears for council-owned flats stood at R31,5 million. It warned that if the trend of non-payment continued the municipality would not be able to maintain these rental units. In the report, Human Settlements Unit senior manager Moses Ngobese said it was even having problems verifying who stayed in some flats. An attempt to get residents to come forward and sign new leases had been unsuccessful. Ngobese said the unit had appointed lawyers to deal with tenants who had not signed new leases by June 30. He said 27 tenants had come forward to verify their occupancy after their electricity was disconnected.“Disconnections have been proceeding on a monthly basis,” he said. Another 89 tenants had since contacted the unit as a consequence. Acting municipal manager Dr Ray Ngcobo said the city worried that statements made by people and “political parties” were encouraging tenants not to pay their rental.    “Despite intervention by council when we wrote off unrecoverable debt, the debt keeps on escalating because the perception is created that we should not be charging rent or that these assets will be given [away],” he said. Ngcobo said the council would be asked to write off debts for pensioners but would not let off those who were absent and charging rent for their units. “We will be victims if we do that. We will not give away state property,” he said. DA caucus leader Sibongiseni Majola challenged Ngcobo to provide evidence of political parties encouraging tenants not to pay rent.                                                                                                               