Pietermaritzburg - “I thought I was going to die.” These are the words of a Pietermaritzburg woman after she and her partner miraculously escaped serious injury in a terrifying car crash this week. The couple say they are lucky to be alive after their car was sandwiched between two trucks on the N3 near the Merrivale off-ramp on Wednesday. Londiwe Mncwabe, the chief library assistant at the Department of Arts and Culture, and Phumlani Nxele, a finance officer at Treasury, had just driven onto the N3 from Howick when a truck crashed into the back of their car, pushing them into another truck driving in front of them. Nxele, who was driving, said they were approaching the road works on the N3 where only one lane was open when the accident occurred. “I was driving behind a truck, one that usually carries cars but was empty,” said Nxele. “Behind me was a Suzuki and behind that car was a white van. “We were approaching the single lane when all of a sudden, the van overtook us and the truck. “I looked in the rearview mirror and saw a truck hit the Suzuki, which hit the bumper of our car before it spun out to the side. “Then all of a sudden the truck crashed into us and pushed us into the other truck in front of us.” Nxele said the car was lifted up off the ground and slid to the side when the truck behind them continued driving. “He stopped just behind the other truck,” he said. Mncwabe said she had seen the truck speeding up behind them and knew they would be pushed into the truck in front of their car. “I just thought, ‘I am dying’,” said Mncwabe. “I saw the truck in the rearview mirror and then there was a bang and I thought that was it, this is death.” Mncwabe said when the truck crashed into them, everything turned upside-down. “My feet ended up on the dashboard, I don’t know how. “My doek and shoes came off and I could see the ground until the car landed,” she said. “I thought we were going to die.” Mncwabe said when the car landed, she heard Nxele calling out, “Baby, are you alive?” “I said yes and that I just wanted to get out of the car.” Nxele said the entire back of their car was crushed and when he sent the photos of the car to family, they did not believe he came out of the crash unharmed.  Mncwabe hurt her back during the crash, but it was a minor injury. Nxele said he usually gave his little brother a lift to school but had not done so that morning. “When I saw the back of the car and thought of my little brother, I just wanted to start crying. “God was definitely with us.”