Residents in the Greendale Park area of Howick have bemoaned the uMngeni Municipality’s slow response to repairing severe potholes there.  For about a year, residents have tried to lobby the municipality to repair the road, which has been slowly deteriorating for years. Residents also submitted a petition with more than 200 signatures to the municipality in January. There were also at least three e-mails sent to municipal officials this year imploring them to attend to the potholes. These were never responded to, residents said.  A series of deep potholes on Wear Avenue is of particular concern to the community, with it even being cited in a motion submitted to the council in June by DA councillor for the area, Janis Holmes. It said the “arterial” road, which has two schools on it, needed to “be urgently resurfaced”. This had not been done despite the petition submitted six months previously.  uMngeni Municipality spokesperson Thando Mgaga said on Wednesday that the municipality has resolved to roll out a plan to address deteriorated roads in Howick and Hilton. This began earlier this month.  He said they had a pavement management system which identified the most severely deteriorated roads and had assigned repair work accordingly. He said work had already been done on a number of roads.  Mgaga said work on Wear Avenue should be completed in the “next couple of weeks”.  A resident who has been directly involved in lobbying the municipality, but who did not want to be named, said he had seen two schoolboys getting knocked off their bikes by motorists trying to dodge potholes on Wear Avenue.  He added: “It is annoying and frustrating, and I think they are just telling us what we want to hear.” The Witness has seen e-mails from community members and Holmes to officials informing them that Wear Avenue is a busy road and that the potholes are a safety hazard. Holmes said e-mails were never responded to. “Residents call this road ‘Wear and tear’ Avenue. When it rains, these potholes get filled and so many people pop their tyres because they can’t see how deep it is,” she said.