With less than a month to go before the start of the ANC elective conference, the country’s spooks have been drawn into the party’s leadership battles. The supporters of presidential hopeful Cyril Ramaphosa’s leaders in Kwa­Zulu-Natal are accusing the backers of his rival, Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, of utilising state intelligence services to spy on them — a claim which was swiftly denied. “We know that they are using the State Security Agency [SSA] to monitor our movements. “They are using this to identify people from their camp who they suspect were collaborating with us,” a source in the Ramaphosa faction said. The source, who is based in Pietermaritzburg, said he believes he is one of the Ramaphosa supporters who has been put under surveillance. “They even bugged my car so they could discover all the people in the NDZ camp that I’m visiting. “I discovered that I’m being spied on after most of the people in the NDZ camp which I had held meetings with at various locations, were interrogated by senior people in the NDZ camp, shortly after our meetings,” he said. With most ANC branches in the province having already elected members to represent them at the conference, the scramble to win over those who will be delegates at the gathering is now in full swing. Spokesperson for the Ramaphosa faction in KwaZulu-Natal, Sthembiso Mshengu, said it was a well known fact that the SSA was being used to monitor the camp’s activities. “As I’m speaking to you now I know pretty well that someone on the other side is listening to our conversation. “It is true that we are lobbying their delegates but for them to resort to these illegal activities is unacceptable,” he said. It is not the first time that the SSA has been dragged into ANC succession battles. A few months ago, SACP secretary-general Blade Nzimande, who has become a fierce critic of President Jacob Zuma, claimed that his party was “bugged” by intelligence operatives. Spokesperson of the SSA Brian Dube, however, has invited those who claim to have been illegally bugged to lay charges. “If they have these kinds of complaints then they should approach the Office of the Inspector-General of Intelligence. Having said that, we would also like to discourage people from making unsubstantiated claims against the SSA,” he said. ANC provincial spokesperson Mdumiseni Ntuli said: “It’s nonsense and those who say that are simply inflating their importance.”