Another prominent ANC politician has been gunned down in KwaZulu-Natal. Lungisani Mnguni (34) died in a hail of bullets at Enkanyezeni, near the Lion Park on Monday. Police have said the motive for the killing is not yet known. He was an ANC Ward 7 branch executive committee member in the Mkhambathini Municipality and had been elected to be a delegate to next month’s ANC elective conference. Mnguni, who was also a taxi owner, recently won a school nutrition programme tender and was on his way to deliver food to schools in the area. According to police, “unknown people” had followed him as he made deliveries at schools. “He came out of the car and tried to run away as he was being shot at. He jumped into a nearby stream, where police found his body,” said KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala. Six bullet cartridges were found on the scene. According to ANC leaders in the area, the branch had endorsed ANC presidential hopeful Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma. “The branch had nominated comrade Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma and Mnguni was going to vote on our behalf at the conference,” Mzwandile Shandu, the branch’s chairperson said. Dlamini-Zuma and ANC deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa are front-runners in the race to replace President Jacob Zuma as party leader at the conference. Mnguni’s business partner Pat Dlamini, who was one of the first people to arrive at the scene, said it was unlikely the murder was related to the taxi business. “Yes, it is true that there is a lot of violence within the taxi industry. However, Lungisani did not have any enemies in the industry and there is absolutely no reason why people in the industry would want him killed,” he said. Dlamini, who is also an ANC Youth League (ANCYL) member in the area, said he could not rule out a political motive in Mnguni’s murder. “There is currently a lot of tension within the ANC and my view is that anything is possible. I would not be surprised if it were to be found that his murder is politically motivated,” he said. Mnguni had recently returned to KwaZulu-Natal from Johannesburg, where he had been a teacher. “He came back about two months ago, his family is still in Johannesburg,” said Shandu. Mnguni, who is a former Ward 7 branch chairperson, had also been an ANCYL leader in Mkhambathini. The ANCYL Moses Mabhida regional leadership said it was concerned about the spate of murders “that appear to be politically motivated” in the area.  “This is the third ANCYL leader who had been killed since December last year. As the ANCYL we are extremely concerned about these killings,” said ANCYL deputy regional secretary Sthe Mhlongo. There has been a sharp increase in the number of ANC politicians killed in the province. The spike in the murders is now the subject of a commission of inquiry. Former KwaZulu-Natal premier Senzo Mchunu recently told the commission that ANC internal power battles as well as fights over tenders were to blame for the murders. However, KwaZulu-Natal police said it was premature to link Mnguni’s killing to politics: “The motive for the killing is not yet known and police are investigating a case of murder.”