A taxi boss from Elandskop was cut down in a hail of gunfire in what police described as an ambush, at Masons Mill on Friday. He was left slumped in a pool of blood in his taxi, which had been riddled by automatic gunfire. Plessislaer police station spokesperson Captain Musa Ntombela said 54-year-old Abel Ngcobo was shot and killed outside Panjivans Liquors on Wigford Road. “He was ambushed by two men who opened fire on his taxi. “He sustained multiple gunshot wounds all over his body.” ER24 spokesperson Ineke van Huyssteen said Ngcobo was declared dead at the scene. “Paramedics found him lying in the driver’s seat of a taxi. Unfortunately, he showed no signs of life and was declared dead on the scene.” Ntombela said Ngcobo had apparently just left the liquor store when he was attacked. It is understood that the gunmen were picked up by a getaway car that was waiting for them on FJ Sithole Road and fled the scene. Ngcobo was the deputy chair of the Elandskop Taxi Association. The chairperson of the Elandskop Taxi Association, Bhekani Nzimande, told Weekend Witness he does not believe the hit is related to taxi violence. “We have not had any problems within our association to link it to taxi violence. We are all very shocked and hope the police can make an arrest soon. “We fear we may be the next targets because we don’t know why he was killed.” Nzimande last spoke to Ngcobo on Wednesday at their weekly meeting. “He was a very humble and down- to-earth man. He worked hard and loved working for the community.” He said Ngcobo had been in the taxi industry for more than 15 years. Ntombela said it was still too early to speculate on the motive. Ngcobo’s brother Mawela said the family were devastated. “We are still trying to come to terms with his death. It is a very difficult time for our family, especially his wives. My brother was a family man.” Mawela said his brother had been receiving threats but refused to give full details. He however said it was not taxi-related. uMgungundlovu Regional Taxi Council chairperson Bheki Sokhela said: “We condemn the attack and hope the police will arrest the perpetrators soon.  “Such killings tarnish the name of the industry and make it seem unstable.” The attack comes as the SA National Taxi Council (Santaco) has urged for calm in Esigodini, in Edendale where taxi violence has been ongoing.