Winners of the Pietermaritzburg Chamber of Business Business Awards had achieved success in spite of one of the toughest years for businesses in recent memory due to the weak economy, said PCB president Leo Quayle. He spoke at the PCB Business Awards ceremony that was held at the Royal Showgrounds on Friday night.  Poobie Naidoo Sports Wholesalers CC won the Business of the Year in the Service Sector Award for the second year running. The retailer and manufacturer of sports clothing and corporate wear is a rags-to-riches story that began 25 years ago when Poobie and Pat Naidoo started the business from the boot of an old car. The company also services customers in countries like Japan, Denmark and Spain.  The Business of the Year in the Manufacturing Sector 2017 went to Hulamin, the world-standard aluminium rolling mill that produces 230 000 tons of aluminium rolled and extruded products. It exports to North and South America, Europe, Australia, Asia and the Middle East.  The joint runner-up Business of the Year in the Manufacturing Sector 2017 was Preformed Line Products, a global designer, manufacturer and supplier of transmission and distribution hardware, cable anchoring and control hardware and systems, fibre-optic and copper splice closures. The other joint runner-up Business of the Year in manufacturing was Pressure Die Castings, the foundry that makes products like brass and aluminium alloy window and door handles, brass components for insulator cut-outs and brass sprinkler heads. The Medium Business of the Year 2017 was Colour Display, a supplier of paint colour cards to the paint industry.  The Runner-Up Medium Business of the Year 2017 was Brink Towing Systems, which designs and manufactures vehicle towbars. The Small Business of the Year 2017 was awarded to Training Leadership Consulting, an international training and consulting company. The Runner-Up in the Small Business category 2017 was Sagewood Cafe, which was established in May 2015 by two caterers, Sue Malherbe and chef Greg Oosthuizen.  The Champion Entrepreneur 2017 was Omy Naidoo of Omy Naidoo, who started his dietician consulting practice in 2014, consulting with medical aid patients in hospital and supplying low GI meal replacements. The company services the entire province as well as several gyms and the Department of Correctional Services. Social Enterprise of the Year 2017 (Medium) was awarded to the Msunduzi Hospice, which offers free hospice care to patients in the terminal stage of their lives who are referred to them by medical doctors.  The Social Enterprise of the Year 2017 (Small) was awarded to Singakwenza Education and Health, which was founded seven years ago and is focused on enhancing early childhood development.