Cheating has been uncovered at the University of KwaZulu-Natal’s School of Applied Human Sciences, with at least four exam papers allegedly being leaked. UKZN insiders told The Witness that two psychology and two criminology exam papers had been leaked.  The school’s management has decided that students will instead write the supplementary exams next week. This includes students who have already written examinations. There are Applied Human Sciences students at Durban’s Howard College and at the Pietermaritzburg campus. It is understood that up to 1 000 second-year and third-year students will have to write the supplementary exams.  Insiders said a meeting was held at Howard College last Friday at which the school’s management took the decision to make students write the supplementary exams.  An e-mail sent by a lecturer to students said management had found that “multiple exams” had been leaked.  The e-mail said a third-year psychology exam was leaked and that students would have to write the supplementary exam next Wednesday. “When the new supplementary date is set by the university, I will communicate [that] with you,” the e-mail continued.  UKZN spokesperson Normah Zondo did not respond to specific questions, but confirmed UKZN was investigating the matter.  “Evidence has come to light that the examination was compromised.” A source with direct knowledge of the situation said students were outraged at management’s decision to make every student write the supplementary papers.  “[Some] have to write a second exam now and that stuffed up [their] whole academic plan.” Newly sworn-in central Student Representative Council (SRC) president Sandile Zondi said he was meeting with other members about the issue yesterday, and could not comment.  A member of the new Howard College SRC, who spoke anonymously, however, said they found it “unacceptable” that all the students were being made to write the supplementary exam.  The member added: “We told [UKZN that it’s] unacceptable to have so many leaks at a premier university. We’re hoping they find who did this and punish them properly so it doesn’t happen again.” The Department of Higher Education and Training said it could not comment on the matter since universities had their own processes when dealing with administrative issues like the leaking of exam papers.