Unhappy with what they say is slow service delivery in their ward, angry residents from Dambuza in Edendale marched to the City Hall on Tuesday. They were demanding an improvement in service delivery, with the purchase of land for the construction of houses at the top of their list. The residents chanted and jeered outside the City Hall, calling for Msunduzi mayor Themba Njilo to come down. However, he did not arrive.  Many carried placards. Some read “We want houses” and others “Ray Ngcobo must fall”. The ANC branch secretary in the ward, Wanda Shezi, said service delivery was moving at a snail’s pace despite the City allocating R15 million for land acquisition in the 2017/18 annual budget. General manager for economic and sustainable development Dr Ray Ngcobo said allegations that money has been lost are “hogwash”. “The money is there and it has not been used. Its utter nonsense that the money is missing, in fact we are getting more from the provincial government to put into the project. We are still in the procurement process and are identifying professional teams of lawyers and engineers to head the project.” Ngcobo said the municipality has already acquired 7 000 hectares of land in the Greater Edendale area and has also secured R100 million to build a urban centre in Ward 22. “About 7 000 units of housing have already been approved in Esigodini, which falls under Ward 20 as well as ward 22.”  This week The Witness reported that many mud houses in the area were near collapse. “We believe by bringing this petition to the attention of the mayor ... he will deal with the issues and ensure we get the services the people are demanding,” said Shezi. The residents said they want reassurance from the municipality that the budget money allocated to the project was still available. Another resident, Gwen Hlatshwayo, said the ward’s residents felt like they were being targeted by the ANC-led administration. “They are victimising us because we have gone against their wishes and nominated Cyril Ramaphosa as our presidential hopeful in our branch,” she said.  Another resident, Jabu Zuma, added that they were also tired of using pit toilets. “... Some are not properly built and we are scared that an elderly person or a child might fall in. We are also at a risk of getting infections,” said Zuma.