Royal Eagles look set to get a new coach and beef up their
squad because of their unexpected desperation in the National First Division. Since the Pietermaritzburg club are uncharacteristically low
in the standings after starting the season as one of the favourites for
promotion, they are understood to be on the verge of appointing experienced
coach Roger Sikhakhane, and striker Sedwyn George is also one of their targets. Eagles are already onto their second coach of the season,
but the incumbent Zipho Dlangalala has enjoyed just two wins from his seven
games in charge since replacing Allan Freese two months ago.  Sikhakhane resigned from the now-defunct Thanda Royals at
the end of last term, having guided the Richards Bay side to the second-tier
title, before having a short spell with the newly-formed Richards Bay team. Now, The Witness has been reliably informed that the former
Chippa United tactician is being sought by Eagles, with angry general manager
James Dlamini revealing to the paper after their latest defeat at the weekend
that “something has to change and it will not be in the playing personnel”.  He said: “This can’t go on like this. Something needs to be
done, and fast. If it means we all have to go for the sake of the team, then so
be it. We can’t keep on changing the players, though. We need to look at
ourselves and the decisions we are making. “Yes, we’ve just recently changed a coach [Allan Freese] but
we are still not winning games and instead we are losing matches that we should
be winning. If it carries on like this, we’ll end up being relegated.”  The well-funded franchise suffered their fifth loss of the
2017/18 campaign on Saturday when they went down 2-0 to local rivals Real Kings
at Harry Gwala Stadium, Dlangalala’s third loss since taking charge. Dlamini stressed: “For coaches, results are important and if
that’s not happening, then you have to make way for other people. Obviously,
it’s not my decision alone. We as the management need to sit down soon and make
a decision. We can’t keep on firing people, but at the same time we need
results.” Sources close to the club have also indicated that Eagles
are monitoring the situation of Eastwood-born striker George at Ajax Cape Town,
who seems to be having a tough time adapting to the top league. The 26-year-old, who won the NFD Golden Boot last term by
netting 20 goals for Eagles, is yet to find his scoring boots after six
appearances across all competitions. George is said to be unhappy at the Urban Warriors after
allegedly being asked by coach Stanley Menzo to play with their reserves in the
Multichoice Diski Challenge. He sees his position in the MDC team as a step backwards for
his career and he would much rather return to the NFD to play more regularly. But Eagles will have to wait for the January transfer window
to possibly buy him back or strike a loan deal with Ajax. 