The Msunduzi Municipality has been criticised for its claim in a previous report by The Witness that it had never received complaints about unruly motorists on Pietermaritzburg roads. Two weeks ago Weekend Witness reported that numerous motorists were shooting the red traffic light at various busy intersections, and that there was a clear lack of traffic police enforcement.  A survey conducted by the paper saw 48 vehicles shoot the red light at the Chota Motala and Willowton Road intersection in just 15 minutes. Those were among hundreds of offenders seen during the survey.  In response, the City said it had not received complaints of motorists shooting the traffic light.  Since that report, The Witness has been inundated with irate residents criticising the City for its comments, saying it should surely have known about the apparent lawlessness on the roads.  Former Ward 33 committee member Louise van Staden said in a letter to various City officials that she found it “shocking” that the City said perceived lawlessness on the roads was never brought to their attention.  Van Staden claimed that she had sent numerous complaints of this nature to the City between 2011 and last year, and was only ever sent a response once. She wrote that she had previously made calls to the City to install cameras at certain busy intersections.  She wrote that her committee had seemingly “wasted our time” with the numerous letters they wrote to the City on the matter.  Van Staden added: “There [have] been numerous letters in The Witness ... about the invisible, non-existent traffic cops. Please explain how the Msunduzi Municipality can be ignorant of the problem.”  City spokesperson, Thobeka Mafumbatha, did not respond to a query last week. She was asked about claims made by Van Staden, as well as whether the City was considering any plans to curb apparent lawlessness on the roads.  The Witness also put a call on Facebook to the public to air their feelings about Pietermaritzburg motorists. The respondents echoed the same concerns raised in the previous Weekend Witness reports.  Verusha Naidoo commented that there was a lack of traffic officers present during peak traffic periods, and this led to motorists jumping red traffic lights.  Xolani Mkhize wrote that it was difficult to turn at an intersection because of motorists jumping red lights.  “I think some robots need cameras to be installed in them and more visible policing by traffic officials is also required.” Gerard Hadden commented: “When I was growing up, PMB was a no-nonsense town with regards to drinking and driving, unlicensed vehicles and drivers. Traffic cops were stationed in almost every road in town. You don’t even see any of them now unless they’re escorting abnormal loads through the city.” 