Dolphins coach Grant
Morgan believes the side’s first defeat in the RAM SLAM T20 Challenge at the
weekend is no reason to press the panic button as “there were more positives
than negatives from their loss”. The Dolphins were
defeated by the Lions­ by six wickets at Senwes Park in Potchefstroom on Sunday
and they hope to bounce back against the Warriors at Kingsmead Stadium tomorrow
at 6 pm, before they travel to the Titans on
Friday. The Lions needed
three runs off the last ball, and Willem Mulder managed to get the ball to the
boundary to secure a victory that helped his side to second spot on the log. The Durban franchise,
who have now dropped to the third spot on the log with six points from three
outings, had set a target of 168 for six. Morgan was obviously
not pleased with the defeat as it took their campaign a step back but he’s
satisfied with the way his side played in losing to the Lions. “We are not accepting
losses, I will take the blame for it, but I’m not the one to accept losses and
sing praises for mediocrity. The loss is inexcusable, but the way that we lost
and the fight that we showed in that loss is a massive positive,” said Morgan. “You can lose the war
when you turn your back on the opponent and they shoot you on your back or you
can lose the war fighting for your family, country or your people running at
the opposition and they shoot you in the head in the front side. “We are getting shot
in the front, not in the back. We get shot running to the opponent. “To push the Lions to
the last ball and get the game back to nearly winning it is a definitive
positive in our team — shows character and skill,” he said. The coach said they
know that they have disappointed their supporters who are frustrated by the
side’s failure to win a trophy in the last three seasons. “I don’t know what
the people think, obviously they are disappointed but I wouldn’t say it was bad
but we need to improve.” The Durbanites
started their T20 Challenge on the front foot by beating Cape Cobras last week
in Pretoria. But their campaign
hit a snag when their second match against the fourth-placed Knights ended with
a draw because of rain in Durban on Friday. Their clash against
the Warriors on Wednesday is expected to be a tough one as the Eastern Cape
franchise are desperate to get off the mark in the competition.