The police investigation into President Jacob Zuma’s claims that he had been poisoned has not been resolved over two years after he first aired the allegation. This has enraged the lawyer for Zuma’s second wife, Nompumelo Ntuli-Zuma, who has been investigated by police in connection with the poisoning. Zuma during a television interview this week renewed his claim that he had been poisoned, but did not elaborate on who might have been behind it. Now it has emerged that the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA), which was supposed to decide whether Ntuli-Zuma was to be charged, has returned the docket to police for further investigation. “I can confirm that the head of the priority crimes litigation unit had returned the docket to police for further investigation,” NPA spokesperson Luvuyo Mfaku said. Ntuli-Zuma, otherwise known as MaNtuli, has since 2015 when police announced she was being investigated, been waiting to know whether she would be charged in connection with the alleged poisoning of Zuma. Luvuyo said there were some gaps in the docket that the head of the unit wanted the police to fill. “It is unacceptable that after making her to wait for more than two-and-a-half years, police still produce such substandard work,” said MaNtuli’s lawyer, Ulrich Roux. Zuma, who during his appearance on ANN7’s Straight Talk programme this week repeated claims that he was poisoned, had suggested that the poison was part of attempts by his political enemies to assassinate him. The ANC president had earlier told a crowd in Pongolo, northern KwaZulu-Natal, that he was being targeted for his support of the ruling party’s radical economic transformation programme. Russian doctors as well as that country’s spies are alleged to have made Zuma aware of the fact that he had been poisoned during the president’s 2015 trip to Eastern Europe. On his return home Zuma allegedly told family members that someone close to him was involved in a plot to murder him. MaNtuli was shortly thereafter kicked out of the Nkandla homestead. However, Roux said MaNtuli had no clue what Zuma is talking about. “She knows nothing about Zuma’s poisoning and our view is there has never been any merit in the accusations. “Up to today, she does not know whether she is a suspect or they want her to be a witness.  “All they have done so far was to send her a list of questions.  “If there are allegations to answer, why not bring her to court instead of making her wait forever,” he said. Shortly after Zuma had during a family gathering allegedly hinted that Ma-Ntuli had played role in the attempt on his life, former intelligence minister David Mahlobo travelled to Nkandla and ordered her to leave the homestead. Zuma, who has four wives, has three children with MaNtuli, who is said to have returned to his parents’ home in Maphumulo, north of Durban. In 2014, Tanzanian businessman Steven Masunga, who claimed to have became close to MaNtuli, was jailed for blackmailing the first lady. Masunga had told the media that MaNtuli got him arrested after he had threatened to tell Zuma about an affair she had with a bodyguard. The bodyguard, Phinda Thomo, had died mysteriously in 2009.