It was all hugs and smiles as matric pupils bid farewell to one another after writing their last exam on Monday. Most matrics across the country sat down to write their Eng­lish paper three exam pn Monday, which marked their last day at high school. The Witness visited Alexandra High School and Pietermaritzburg Girls’ High School, and matriculants were seen hugging and bidding their teachers and classmates farewell. Cassandra Ndlovu (17) from Alexandra High said she was very excited about finishing her finals. Although she described Monday’s paper as “nice”, she said it was longer than she had expected. She said she will be staying home during the holidays to rest while preparing for her first year of studying medicine next year. Akhona Matiwane (18), also from Alexandra High, found Monday’s paper easy. “It was definitely a good last paper and the topics were not as challenging as I thought they’d be.” Matiwane will be going out to celebrate with friends and preparing for his matric dance next week. Quintell Andrews (18), Brandy Zulu (18) and Sanelisiwe Zondi (18) from GHS were seen standing outside their exam venue chatting with a group of friends. The girls said Monday’s paper was “long but bearable” and that they were not planning on attending any parties. “We will not be attending any of those rage, rave or pens-down parties but we are planning a day out to the mall or somewhere for lunch or a movie just to celebrate the end of exams and say our goodbyes properly,” said Zondi. Walking into the exam venue for the last time, Zulu said she “felt sad because I realised that this is probably the last time I am sitting here and wearing my school uniform. I will definitely miss high school.” Andrews said she was nervous but excited about her last day in high school. “Next year I will be taking a gap year and will be gaining work experience while I decide what I want to study,” she said. Zulu said judging by the past papers they used to study, she felt like the exams were not as hard as those in previous years. She wished the matrics of 2018 all the best for their matric year next year. On Tuesday a few matriculants are writing their agricultural management practices and design in the afternoon session while private schools are writing visual art. Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga is set to announce the national matric pass rate on January 4 and results will be released on January 5.