An elderly Wembley couple and their son were tied up, threatened with a knife and robbed for the second time in two months on Tuesday morning. The couple, Neville(72) and Lesley Hodgson, and their son, Greg, were attacked in late September when a man wielding a panga burst into their Wembley home to rob the family. However, Hodgson’s screaming and shouting at the man scared him off without any items being stolen from the house. Following Tuesday’s brazen robbery, the family plan to sell their home and move to the Midlands early next year. Hodgson said the man who robbed them on Tuesday morning was the same man who had attacked his family in September. Speaking of September’s incident, Hodgson said a man entered their property at around 7 pm, taking Hodgson by surprise. He said the robber grabbed him and dragged him to the garage where he tied Hodgson to the towbar of his vehicle before sneaking into the house and tying up Lesley and Greg. Hodgson said he pulled multiple ligaments in his knee while escaping from the garage, but grabbed a golf club and “the biggest kitchen knife” he could find and rushed to the aid of his wife and son. “I was two metres behind him and thought about hitting him over the head with the club but he had a panga so I just started screaming and shouting at the top of my lungs instead.” He said the man was scared off and ran away leaving the family shaken. Hodgson said he was busy parking his car in the garage on Tuesday morning at around 11.30 am when “a man with a knife popped up”. “It was the same man who attacked us in September. I recognised his voice and he said the same thing as the last time: ‘Be quiet or I will kill you’. “He took me to the garage and tied my hands behind my back and bound my ankles. “I was left in the garage like a rubber ball,” he said. “He tied me up very tightly and stole the money in my pockets and my credit card. “I could not believe this was happening again. “I thought, ‘Now I’m stuffed’ and hoped he [the robber] would not harm my wife or son.” Hodgson said the man left the garage and went into the house where his wife and son were. Greg said he was in the TV room with his mom when the man came in. “He told me to lie down on the floor and tied me up and then took my mom through to the bedroom.” He said he tried to free himself but he was tied too tightly. He said he was able to lie down on the couch and press the panic button with his toe. “I think that irritated him. He came through from the rooms with my laptop and took my dad’s laptop and two cellphones.” Two sets of car keys were also stolen during the robbery. “I am in disbelief this has happened again,” he said. “It was so brazen.” Hodgson said he and his wife will move to the Midlands next year following the incident, while Greg will emigrate to the UK.