The Inkatha Freedom Party has strengthened its campaign ahead of the by-elections in ward 33 in Msunduzi by wooing new members from the ANC and DA. Ward 33 includes Church Street, Manor, Scottsville bordered by King Edward Avenue, Golf Road and the highway.On Sunday, the party&rsquo;s provincial and regional leadership welcomed new members which included former Democratic Alliance councillor Peter Green. Green was also announced as the party&rsquo;s candidate for the by-election on August 2.The ward will hold a by-election following the resignation of DA councillor Uraisha Haswell. Haswell resigned to focus her attention on her corporate career.Addressing a small crowd gathered outside Jika Joe informal settlement, IFP National Executive Committee member Mfanje Mbango said it was the principle of the IFP to nominate and elect a person who resides in that particular ward.&ldquo;As the IFP we do not impose a candidate on the people. We give them that liberty to elect and nominate their own candidate. The person that we want must be someone who resides in this ward. &ldquo;We did very well in Nquthu and we want to keep that momentum going to 2019. We can see that people still have confidence in our party and our leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi.&rdquo;Welcoming the new members, Mbango said the influx of members of other parties to the IFP demonstrated that the political landscape in KZN was changing. Green, who has also served in the area as the chairperson of the Scottsville Ratepayers&rsquo; Association, said if elected, the plan will be to ensure that residents in this ward get better living conditions.&ldquo;There are lots of community needs that we want to change. The health conditions and conditions under which the people stay. We need to get the municipality to pay attention to the lives of the people here. The children need to be provided with a better future and I&rsquo;m happy to do that on behalf of the IFP.&rdquo;He resigned from the DA on Saturday and said he decided to jump ship because the IFP is a principled party. &ldquo;They are led by a gentleman who cares for all the people ... I&rsquo;ve been working in the community for a long time and I am happy to apply the policies and principles of the IFP because they are honest and we can trust them.&rdquo;DA KZN deputy leader Mergan Chetty said Green left because he was not the party&rsquo;s preferred candidate. Chetty said the DA will be competing to retain the ward and they were finalising their interview process to elect a candidate.