A story of hope and humility connects a retired Port Shepstone businessman and the country&rsquo;s new deputy chief justice.The businessman, Suleman Bux (76), and recently-appointed deputy chief justice of the Constitutional Court, Judge Raymond Zondo, share a story that evokes emotion and exemplifies the true spirit of ubuntu.The story relates to a loan for food which Bux, who owned a supermarket in Ixopo, offered a then 17-year-old Zondo in 1977.That act of kindness has remained with Zondo and 40 years later propels him to help the less fortunate.The judge recounted the moving story when he gave a brief outline of his background in April during his interview with the Judicial Services Commission (JSC).This week, a clip of the interview resurfaced following Zondo&rsquo;s appointment.&ldquo;When I finished matric I was confident I would get an exemption and qualify to go to university. I was confident I was going to get a bursary too but my problem was at home the situation was quite bad. My mother lost her job two years before my matric,&rdquo; he said in the clip.Zondo continues to say that by the time he finished Grade 11, his mother had exhausted all her savings.&ldquo;Somehow I felt that the community had seen how my mother struggled to raise us on her own and expected me to look for work after matric to support her. I wanted to go and do law and was determined but I felt I couldn&rsquo;t do that unless I made arrangements to ensure my mother and siblings would have something to eat.&rdquo;That was when he approached Bux and asked for a loan. &ldquo;Very interestingly he didn&rsquo;t ask many questions and agreed to help me. He said he can&rsquo;t give me money but will give me a voucher to give to my mother for groceries. Each month my mother would collect groceries up to the value of R20 at his shop until I finished my degree.&rdquo;The oral agreement continued for three years and in the clip, an emotional Zondo said he was touched by Bux&rsquo;s humility when he refused to accept repayment for the loan.&ldquo;When I asked him what arrangements we could make so I repay him, he said don&rsquo;t worry. Do to others what I have done to you. I thought that was very important and in my own small way I try to do that,&rdquo; said the judge.The Weekend Witness tracked down Bux, who said he remembered the young and energetic Zondo. &ldquo;He often visited my shop and from all the students I interacted with, he was the only one who wanted to be an attorney.&rdquo;Bux said he was touched when Zondo approached him for the loan. &ldquo;I told him if I gave him money it would probably get used somewhere else so I would rather give him grocery vouchers for a certain amount for his family to collect monthly.&rdquo;Bux said he had been happy to help where he could. &ldquo;When he came back to repay it [the amount] as per our oral agreement I said to him&rdquo; &lsquo;Raymond the best way you can repay me is by helping another struggling student&rsquo;,&rdquo; he said.When the video surfaced, Bux said he saw Judge Zondo&rsquo;s face and immediately remembered him. &ldquo;I remembered his face as a youngster. He hasn&rsquo;t changed much. I was touched and overwhelmed with emotion when I watched the video. When we help people, we do not expect anything in return.&rdquo;