Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa&rsquo;s presidential campaign received another boost in KwaZulu-Natal when he was given an enthusiastic reception in Dambuza near Pietermaritzburg on Thursday.Ramaphosa&rsquo;s bid to succeed Zuma appeared to receive tacit support in that several high-profile ANC provincial leaders, including former MECs Ntombikayise Sibhidla-Saphetha and Cyril Xaba, showed up to accompany him when he paid his respects yesterday to the family of the late Nozipho Nzimande, mother of Blade Nzimande. Saphetha and Xaba were recalled in 2016 after the axing of then premier Senzo Mchunu. Asked if his presence at the Nzimande homestead meant he was giving support to Ramaphosa, Xaba said: &ldquo;I was only there to pass my condolences to the Nzimandes. However, Ramaphosa is the deputy president of the ANC and the position of the ANC president suits him well.&rdquo;Xaba said the ANC had always provided people with the right to express their views. &ldquo;The ANC fought for the right to freedom of speech, expression and association so the same ANC will would not turn its back on those rights. &ldquo;In fact, people must be free to express their views regardless of whether they are popular or not. &ldquo;The ANC is the assembly of people with different views who meet and discuss views and agree on one that is superior. We do not stifle debate.&rdquo;Sabhidla-Saphetha declined to comment on her preferred candidate for the presidency, saying she was at the Nzimande homestead to show support to Nzimande. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m disappointed you&rsquo;re asking me this question. I was only there to support comrade Blade. &ldquo;If I wanted to support the leadership I would not do it at funerals.&rdquo;The crowd cheered and sang as Ramaphosa arrived at the Nzimande homestead. One of the song lyrics was: &ldquo;Ramaphosa welcome, Zuma go&rdquo;, sung in Sotho.The ANC is due to elect a new leadership in December and has seen a slip in support partly due to Zuma being implicated in a series of scandals.Ramaphosa addressed the small crowd gathered at the Nzimande homestead, several wearing shirts and caps on which were written &ldquo;CR-17&rdquo;, in reference to a Twitter handle #CR17siyavuma that is linked to Ramaphosa&rsquo;s website.&ldquo;When the minister called to inform me his mother had died I got worried. &ldquo;I thought he was calling to inform me that he had received a promotion or that there was going to be another cabinet reshuffle. I wondered how, because I was not consulted,&rdquo; he said jokingly. The crowd shouted &ldquo;consultations are not made anymore&rdquo;.Ramaphosa said he was happy to hear that some of the founding members of the ANC were from Edendale.&ldquo;I&rsquo;m happy to see the support of the ANC in this area. Comrade Blade gave me brief history lesson on Edendale and I am happy that this is the home of the ANC. This is where some of the founding members of the ANC were born and where the party will live forever,&rdquo; he said.He urged ANC members to strengthen their branches ahead of the party&rsquo;s policy conference later this month.&ldquo;We want your delegates to come up with revolutionary proposals for the policy conference. After that we are going to December to confirm our policies. I don&rsquo;t have to tell what else we&rsquo;ll be doing at that conference because you are all aware. The conference will be critical in the renewal of our organisation,&rdquo; he said.