NewholmePrimary School bagged their second consecutive Witness /SuperSport Let&rsquo;s Play Sports Star of the Month winner, with Grade 7 pupil Celimpilo Phungula taking the honours.The volleyball star who lives in Northdale is the Let&rsquo;s Play Star of the Month for May. The 12-year-old, who also takes part in soccer and athletics at the Pietermaritzburg school, is the competition&rsquo;s third winner, as well as the schools&rsquo; second winner, following Lethukuthula Jama&rsquo;s win in April.Speaking to The Witness , Celimpilo described his win, as a pleasant surprise.&ldquo;I&rsquo;m very humbled to receive this prize. This will encourage me to train harder and achieve more in the near future. I&rsquo;m very excited. I didn&rsquo;t expect it. I want to thank my coach and the school for their support,&rsquo;&rsquo; he said.Costa, named after Premier League star, Diego Costa who plays for champions Chelsea, is part of the team departing for Durban today, to represent the uMgungundlovu team at the U13 Provincial Volleyball Championships.The event kicks off today and will run until Sunday.When asked what his motto is, for life in general and sports practice, he replied: &ldquo;Put in the time, work hard, train hard and reap the fruits that come.&rdquo;When not focusing on maintaining decent marks in the classroom or travelling from one sport practice session to another, Celimpilo enjoys spending his downtime playing video games with his peers or chilling in front of the television watching his favourite show Supa Strikas .Let&rsquo;s Play is an initiative to enhance recreation and development in schools through play and sport.It aims to seek and give recognition to primary school learners in the city aged between six and 12 who excel in sport.His teacher and coach Rizae Pillay described Phungula as an adventurous and spontaneous youngster who has a bright future ahead of him.&ldquo;This is a really great achievement for the school. We&rsquo;d like to thank The Witness and SuperSport for this positive initiative. He added: &ldquo;Celimpilo is an excellent sportsman. He represented the district in soccer and he will be going to Durban tomorrow [today] to represent Umgungundlovu again at the provincial Volleyball championship and they will be back on Sunday. &ldquo;Costa has really achieved a lot. He comes from a hard background and we&rsquo;re happy to see him achieve so much.&rdquo;The ambitious youngster aims at winning gold for the district in Durban this weekend, and being selected for both the Umgungundlovu soccer and athletics sides as well.Celimpilo and other monthly winners receive a Let&rsquo;s Play hamper filled with goodies to the value of R700, as well as an opportunity to be featured in the newspaper.The competition will run until the end of November, after which an overall winner will be selected and announced at the SuperSport Let&rsquo;s Play Star of the Year 2017 awards. The final awards will be broadcast on the Let&rsquo;s Play programme on SuperSport, where winners will walk away with some fabulous prizes.Names of nominated candidates should be sent to The Witness sports editor at sport@witness.co.za.The deserving player will be chosen as the SuperSport Let&rsquo;s Play Star of the Month by an independent panel of four sport experts. Any school can enter their candidates for any sport. The nomination must include their name/s, age and achievements, as well as the entrants&rsquo; contact details. It&rsquo;s certainly an opportunity not be missed.