An Imbali man has accused a local pastor of attempting to kill him by dousing him with petrol and threatening to set him alight for &ldquo;stealing&rdquo; mats from a church. Mxolisi Zwane (34) from Imbali Unit 1 told The Witness that he thought the pastor, who was in the company of his son when he allegedly confronted the complainant, was going to kill him.A street vendor in the CBD, Zwane said he was walking home from a nearby tuck shop on May 22 at around 8.30 pm when he was approached by the pastor, who stopped his bakkie next to him.&ldquo;He told me to jump inside the car because he wanted to talk to me. The pastor drove off as soon I entered the car,&rdquo; Zwane said.He said he asked where they were taking him but no one answered. The pastor, Zwane said, then drove into the Azalea Cemetery where Zwane was allegedly instructed to get out of the car. &ldquo;The pastor pointed a gun at me and told me to show him my wrists. They handcuffed me, cable tied my ankles and stuffed one of my socks into my mouth.&ldquo;They then started punching and kicking me demanding that I tell them why I stole mats from the church and where I had hidden them.&ldquo;I was so confused. I couldn&rsquo;t even tell them I didn&rsquo;t know anything because they stuffed socks in my mouth,&rdquo; said Zwane.When Zwane insisted he knew nothing about the theft the pastor allegedly squeezed his testicles and doused him with petrol. &ldquo;They started looking for a lighter in the car. I was scared that they would kill me so I lied and gave them a wrong address and told them that was where the stolen stuff was. They left and I started screaming for help,&rdquo; said Zwane.He said a man who was standing in his yard saw him and called the police.Zwane opened a case at the Plessislaer police station the next day but said he had not heard anything from the police since then. &ldquo;The pastor came to my home to look for me a few days after the attack but luckily I wasn&rsquo;t at home. &ldquo;I am scared, I don&rsquo;t know where to hide and I swear I did not steal from him,&rdquo; said Zwane.The pastor, whose name is known to The Wit ness but cannot be named, denied the incident and knowing Zwane. &ldquo;I know nothing about this matter, all this is news to me,&rdquo; he said.He said he has been having problems with the whoonga addicts in Imbali who have been breaking into his church and stealing but said he reported the matter to the police. &ldquo;I am glad this person opened a case with the police so we shall meet each other in court,&rdquo; said the pastor.Plessislaer police spokesperson Captain Musa Ntombela confirmed that a case of assault had been opened and that police were investigating the matter. Ntombela said if Zwane felt unsafe he should report this to the investigating officer at the police station.