Tied, tormented and raped for six days. That is the horrific ordeal a woman from Edendale suffered at the hands of her &ldquo;neighbour&rdquo;.The 20-year-old woman was visiting a friend when she went missing on May 27 . It was only after she did not return home the following day that her family started to become concerned.The alarm was raised and a search was launched. Her frantic parents went to hospitals and mortuaries around the city looking for her and also prayed for her safe return. Her mother filed a missing person report with the police on May 31. Little did she know her daughter was being kept at a house a stone&rsquo;s throw away from her home.Speaking to The Witness , the woman, who had visible scratches on her arm, recounted her nightmare. &ldquo;I was on my way home around 6.30 pm when he called me into the house, saying he wanted to ask something. &ldquo;He was inside the house and the gate was open, he told me to come in, when I did he jumped up and locked the gate and the door.&rdquo;The visibly shaken woman said she was then pushed into one of the rooms in the house where her tormentor tied her hands with a bandage.&ldquo;He locked me in one of the rooms and told me crying will not help. He also threatened to kill me if I screamed. &ldquo;Every time I tried to scream he blocked my mouth with his hand or cut my arm with a sharp object and threatened to slit my throat,&rdquo; she said. The house where she was kept was previously used as a cr&egrave;che but has since been occupied by those suspected of using whoonga and other drugs in the area&shy;. &ldquo;There are a lot of people going in and out of that house that is why we didn&rsquo;t think she would be there,&rdquo; said her mother. &ldquo;I was heartbroken when I found out she was in my backyard and none of us could help her.&rdquo; Last Friday, the woman managed to flee from the clutches of her abuser.&ldquo;One of his friends came to the house to smoke and left the door open and I managed to escape. I ran home and collapsed at the front door. I had not eaten for six days. I think he was going to rape me and end up killing me when he was done.&rdquo;The family has urged police to arrest the suspect because they fear he could return to harm their daughter.Plessislaer police spokesperson Captain Musa Ntombela said police are investigating a case of rape and kidnapping and an arrest is imminent.