Two Pietermaritzburg families have spoken of their grief after a horrific car crash claimed the lives of their loved ones last week. Rekha Loricklall, Neolin Naicker and Sherwin Maharaj from Northdale died at the crash scene while Ricky Loricklall, 17-month-old Yashvir Loricklall and two others were seriously injured.Rekha, her husband Ricky and their son Yashvir were on their way home from Westville when the bakkie they were travelling in collided head-on with a VW Polo which was on the wrong side of the N3 near New England Road on Thursday night.Speaking to The Witness, Rekha&rsquo;s daughter Kimisha said the family were still having a hard time dealing with her mother&rsquo;s death.&ldquo;Every Thursday they attend a church service in Westville. They always called before they left the service to tell us they would be home soon. We became anxious when they didn&rsquo;t get home but didn&rsquo;t think something bad had happened.&rdquo;Kimisha said she got the dreadful call around midnight alerting her that her parents had been involved in a terrible accident.&ldquo;One of the tow trucks that attended the scene belongs to a relative. When he saw the bakkie number plate he knew it was my parents and contacted my uncle who then alerted us.&rdquo;She said her mother had been working at a family business in Howick.&ldquo;She always made an effort to keep us happy. She would put her life on the line for us. &ldquo;This is all very hard especially for my baby brother. We have had to take my mother&rsquo;s photographs off the walls because he cries every time he sees her.&rdquo;Kimisha said the family don&rsquo;t have full details of how the accident occurred.She said her brother had been discharged from hospital but her father had not regained consciousness and was still in the intensive care unit.&ldquo;We are all praying that he makes it. Every time they take him off the medication to see if he can wake up he becomes aggressive. He is in a bad state. His leg is broken, his eyelid tore and he suffered a fractured skull.&rdquo;Meanwhile, the parents of Sherwin Maharaj &mdash; one of the four occupants in the VW Polo that split in two during the accident, have been left devastated.His mother Jackie said she had last seen him around 6 pm that day.&ldquo;He left home with his best friend when we left to drop off a relative&rsquo;s baby. That was the last I saw him. He is always at home by 11 pm. That particular day he didn&rsquo;t reach home. &ldquo;I waited until 11.30 pm and there was no sign of him. I started phoning and usually when I call he always sends a message to say he is on his way. That day I never received a message.&rdquo;She said at midnight her son&rsquo;s friends told them he had been involved in an accident.&ldquo;I thought he was just injured. I didn&rsquo;t think he was gone. On our way to the scene I kept praying and asking God to keep him alive. &ldquo;When we got to the scene, the bodies were already covered in silver blankets. We saw his takkies and knew he hadn&rsquo;t made it.&rdquo;Pietermaritzburg police spokesperson Sergeant Mthokozisi Ngobese said a case of reckless and negligent driving was opened.