As June is commemorated by way of celebrating the youth, it is only fitting to acknowledge a young local artist who is blazing the trail in the local, national and international music scene. A Pietermaritzburg-born DJ and producer made it against considerable odds when he collaborated with international artists.Thabiso &ldquo;T-Munny&rdquo; Ngobese, from Ashdown has made it a point to put his skills on display. It was back in 2009 at the Southern African Music Conference (SAMC) where Ngobese completely stole the show, and music lovers were ready for him to entertain them with his music and mixed tapes. Ngobese has since received great radio airplay on radio stations such as uMgungundlovu FM, Ukhozi FM, Metro FM, Gagasi FM and Y-FM.At present, the 28-year-old is a DJ and music industry operation, radio production and music production lecturer at Creative Arts College based in Pietermaritzburg. Ngobese is a man with many talents, as he is also currently an events manager at Cubana Maritzburg.When asked about his career choice, Ngobese said that initially his mother was skeptical of the music industry. She felt as though it involved a great deal of drug abuse and that Ngobese would fall victim to drugs. &ldquo;But mom is cool now,&rdquo; said Ngobese. While Pietermaritzburg is well-known for its love and appreciation for house music, Ngobese says local artists are facing media coverage challenges. &ldquo;There isn&rsquo;t much media coverage in our city. We have to go to other cities like Johannesburg or Durban to achieve media coverage.&rdquo; In 2008, Ngobese established a Pietermaritzburg-based record label known as Invaders Music aimed at creating a platform for up-and-coming young musicians to showcase and present themselves to a wider audience. Invaders Music&rsquo;s vision is to be the leading record label in the country, producing quality music and featuring talented artists. Ngobese said contributing to the success of the label is the hard work that each artist puts in and words of encouragement from renowned South African producers and DJs who have steered and mentored the label. According Ngobese, relationships with other household labels like Afrotainment and repeatedly attending the South African Music Conference (SAMC) each year has been an eye-opener for the label.The locally based entertainer has attracted the attention of international artists, having completed recording a song with Chappell, a United States, Houston-based house vocalist, which will be available in his upcoming EP. His hard work and determination have seen him collaborate with United Kingdom supermodel and vocalist Harriet Summer on a house track that is part of his 2017 EP release.Among the various artists Ngobese has produced music for are well-known Durban-based kwaito group Big Nuz; South African recording artist, DJ and entrepreneur DJ Tira; the first lady of house DJ Cndo; the legendary DJs @ Work; South Africa&rsquo;s longest-spinning and influential DJ and house producer and DJ Christos; one of South Africa&rsquo;s leading house masters Vinny Da Vinci; the talented house legend Fistaz Mixwell; and international DJ and producer Andy Compton. Ngobese&rsquo;s memorable performances include the Metro FM awards pre-party and after party, The Mother of All Parties hosted by renowned South African Deejays. He has been invited to the 2017 South African Music Conference (SAMC) in Durban where he will be perform and share his knowledge of the music industry with budding musicians from June 29 to July 2.The producer and DJ is on the performing line-up for Pietermaritzburg&rsquo;s highly celebrated house event Music Will Save the Day Experience to be held at 033 Lifestyle on June 24.