Protus Mtolo's story as told to Nokuthula KhanyilePietermaritzburg - Ingoma Zulu traditional dance runs in Protus Mtolo&rsquo;s veins and remains an important part of his tradition. The 64-year-old security guard from Bulwer has been an Ingoma dancer for almost half a century and his hobby has seen him travel abroad to showcase his skill.&ldquo;I&rsquo;m originally from Bulwer and where I am from it was customary for young bachelors to dance. &ldquo;We regard Ingoma as one of the purest remnants of Zulu tradition and it was also a time for the youth to instil the tradition of sharing experiences and building solidarity through communal dance.&rdquo; Mtolo, who was actively involved in Ingoma dance in Bulwer, initiated various traditional dance groups back in the mid-1960s when he started working at the Pietermaritzburg railway station.&ldquo;When I got to Pietermaritzburg I formed a group with my colleagues. We won various Ingoma competitions and were even invited to go and perform in Japan for six months.&rdquo;He said he travelled to Japan for six months in 1991 with the South African Railways (SAR) Ingoma group.&ldquo;It was a surreal moment because with my level of education I never imagined myself ever travelling overseas. The Japanese were very welcoming and displayed fascination with our tradition and traditional attire. &ldquo;They would take pictures of us and ask if we could teach them our traditional dance. &ldquo;Even though there was political turmoil back home at the time, we were happy to show the world another side to our beautiful country besides the blood baths.&rdquo;Mtolo said when they got retrenched at the railway station, the group separated.&ldquo;After the retrenchment I got a temporary job at Nestle in 1995. We formed another Ingoma group there but it didn&rsquo;t last long. That firm also closed down and that was the last group I joined.&ldquo;We were known as Zulu charmers. We were famous for our dance. Once we got invited by Selby Goba to do a live performance on Radio Zulu. &ldquo;That clip played a couple of times and made us the talk of the town. &ldquo;It was an exciting time.&rdquo;He said winning competitions back then meant getting an animal to slaughter.&ldquo;We would enter competitions and win trophies. Sometimes we would win goats or cows and have a big celebration. I remember once we walked away with R40 000 at a competition that was held in Durban. &ldquo;We often shared the money among ourselves, but the trophies were kept by our managers in the office for displays.&rdquo;Mtolo, who has since retired from Ingoma traditional dance, said he has been invited to teach it at schools in Bulwer but declined.&ldquo;Age is not on my side. I am not as flexible as I was back then. I can&rsquo;t lift my foot over my head and bring it down hard anymore,&rdquo; he said.