Cancer survivor Aneetha Moodley is a &ldquo;symbol of hope&rdquo; to all those who think cancer is a death sentence.After being diagnosed with colo&shy;rectal cancer (cancer of the large intestine) nine years ago, Moodley, who is a retired social worker, has dedicated her life to volunteering as she provides counselling for cancer patients in and around the Midlands.The Raisethorpe mother of two said although she retired as a professional social worker she still considered herself as one because of the voluntary work she does at the CANSA Association. &ldquo;I developed problems with bowel movements due to what I thought was stress from my job and life at the time. I had a seven-month treatment for a non-cancer-related illness until I insisted on getting more tests done and that&rsquo;s when I was diagnosed with stage three colorectal cancer in 2008.&ldquo;It is a common problem. People are diagnosed pretty late even though the symptoms are there, people are treated for a variety of other things and that has a great impact on the outcome of the treatment.&ldquo;If my cancer was detected sooner the treatment would have not been as aggressive. &ldquo;Treating the cancer was absolutely horrific. I had surgery and had part of my colon removed, I had chemotherapy, radiation and the side effects were absolutely devastating.&ldquo;What I realised is that when you are diagnosed you feel okay but when they start to treat the cancer, that is when you really get sick.&ldquo;Unfortunately for me the radiation treatment damaged my small intestines and I had to get a portion of it removed, so I ended up having removed part of my colon and small intestine. &ldquo;I now live with chronic diarrhoea.&ldquo;My treatment is over now but I still do annual checks. I still have to have treatment for my diarrhoea as it is a condition I will live with for the rest of my life. &ldquo;Cancer may impact the quality of one&rsquo;s life but it definitely doesn&rsquo;t end it.&ldquo;While working as a social worker I always wanted to do volunteer work but after my fight with cancer I knew that I had to volunteer at the Cancer Association.&ldquo;I started working there in January 2014. &ldquo;I help with patient care, which includes counselling for recently diagnosed patients and their families because often people panic and think cancer is a death sentence. &ldquo;I am a symbol of hope. Nine years after being diagnosed with cancer I am still alive, there is life after cancer.&ldquo;I help them to accept and go through the treatment because once you accept the diagnosis the healing process is easier.&ldquo;I work closely with the oncology unit at Grey&rsquo;s Hospital where we offer counselling, do home visits, and telephone follow-ups for patients. We also donate from our pockets to provide for the patients who really have nothing. &ldquo;The patients who visit Grey&rsquo;s often don&rsquo;t have much, some come in from far flung places all around KZN and we help provide food and fruits for them while they wait to see the doctors.&ldquo;I also initiated a cancer support group three years ago where cancer patients and survivors get together and share their experiences, coping tips and just to offer support to one another. &ldquo;A diagnosis by a doctor is a clinical thing. I feel doctors are trained to diagnose and treat but they are not trained to deal with the emotional element that comes with the diagnosis.&ldquo;That is why it is so important to have a support structure and counselling.&ldquo;Being diagnosed with cancer comes as an extreme shock and without proper emotional support a patient cannot survive.&ldquo;It is important that people undertake lifestyle changes to prevent being diagnosed with cancer as prevention is better than treatment.&rdquo;Aneetha Moodley as told to Nompilo Kunene