A group of Durban-based religious leaders have criticised those behind attempts to remove President Jacob Zuma from office through Tuesday&rsquo;s vote of no confidence.The motion will be tabled in the National Assembly, with some ANC MPs having indicated they will vote with opposition parties to remove Zuma.Leaders of religious bodies and amakhosi slammed plans to remove Zuma, describing them as counter-revolutionary. They called for MPs who support the motion of no confidence against Zuma to resign as Members of Parliament. The religious leaders held a prayer meeting at the Durban City Hall on Monday. Chairperson of eThekwini Interfaith, Mxolisi Phakathi, said Zuma was not the problem and called for the ANC MPs who have said there was a crisis in SA to step down. &ldquo;It cannot be correct that one can cause so many problems singlehandedly. The problem is those MPs and all of them should resign.&ldquo;Stop dividing our country. We do not want to go back to the times when this country was run through the barrel of a gun.&rdquo;Timothy Ngcobo of the National Interfaith Council of South Africa (Nicsa) criticised those who have organised marches in support of the motion. &ldquo;Over the years, opposition parties have organised themselves with certain groupings in an attempt to overthrow the democratically elected government. These marches are nothing other than a publicity gimmick by the counter-revolutionary elements.&ldquo;This is a clear indication that the counter-revolutionary elements are on a huge onslaught campaign to delegitimise the ANC as the only custodian of hopes and aspiration of the South African people. &ldquo;We see the agenda of these counter-revolutionary forces as reckless and ill-conceived in light of the efforts by the government to inspire investor confidence as part of reigniting the country&rsquo;s economic prospects.&rdquo;The prayer was attended by various interfaith organisations, including Muslims, Rastafarian, Zionists and traditional healers. Meanwhile, ANC provincial chairperson Sihle Zikalala issued an instruction to all KZN MPs to toe the ANC party line.&ldquo;This [motion] is about regime change driven by the legendary enemies of the National Democratic Revolution, supported by some among us who believe ... that their conscience takes precedence over the collective wisdom of the movement. &ldquo;The African National Congress cannot be dictated by its opponents on how to deal with its one of its own deployed cadres. As a matter of principle, working with the opponents of the NDR to achieve a removal of the African National Congress-led government constitutes an act of counter-revolution.&rdquo; Zikalala was speaking at the closing of the PEC Lekgotla in Durban on Monday.