President Jacob Zuma has criticised the SA Communist Party over its plan to abandon the ANC alliance on the eve of the crucial no-confidence vote against him.Speaking in Pietermaritzburg on Sunday, Zuma took the fight back to the SACP and accused the ANC alliance partner of abandoning the struggle for the empowerment of the poor.Zuma spoke during the unveiling of a statue of struggle stalwart and former SACP leader Harry Gwala in Caluza, Edendale.The SACP has said it will not vote in favour of Zuma in the motion of no confidence against him, set to be held tomorrow at the National Assembly.The SACP has also called for the ANC to remove Zuma as the president and the party also barred Zuma from addressing its recent congress, where its leadership was re-elected in July.On Sunday Zuma pulled no punches as he waded in and hit out at the SACP &mdash; a party whose support he once enjoyed while he was campaigning to be the ANC president.He accused the SACP of straying away from the teachings of Gwala and said the party had abandoned the fight for socialism in the country.&ldquo;The current leaders of the SACP can be very talkative at times, but they do not talk about socialism,&rdquo; he said.&ldquo;A lot of effort was put into building this alliance. At that time, it was SACP who needed it badly. It cannot be that today the communists are the ones who are saying that they do not care if the alliance collapses.&ldquo;They are obviously not the real communists. Their politics is half. They do not know the Communist Manifesto.&rdquo;Zuma said the alliance partners need to sit down and rebuild the alliance.&ldquo;We must stop grandstanding. If there are problems, we must set up meetings and resolve our differences.&ldquo;Today there are people who wait for a struggle icon to pass away, and then they use the memorial service to attack the leaders of the ANC. That is wrong.&rdquo;Zuma said he would like to respond to some attacks directed at him, but he would not stoop to their level.&ldquo;If it is a raining and someone decides to take off their clothes and walk in the rain to prove that they are brave, you do not do the same; because someone who will see that, would be like, &lsquo;I saw two madmen arguing about who was better than the other&rsquo;.&rdquo;Zuma said he could not understand why the SACP was among those in the ANC ranks that were rejecting the use of the term &ldquo;white monopoly capital&rdquo; in ANC official documents.&ldquo;Our land was taken by white people and they still own it. They took our economy and they still own it. Why is the SACP defending white monopoly capital? Are they now friends with white monopoly capital?&rdquo; he asked.The event was attended by Pietermaritzburg-born MPs who will vote during the motion of no confidence on Monday.They included Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini and Deputy Minister of Environmental Affairs Barbara Thomson.KZN Premier Willies Mchunu urged the two MPs not to &ldquo;ever change&rdquo; and to toe the party line.&ldquo;People can change. People we used to trust have now changed,&rdquo; he said.Without mentioning any names, Mchunu said a &ldquo;child of Pietermaritzburg&rdquo; had turned against the ANC.Two Pietermaritzburg-born MPs, SACP general secretary Blade Nzimande and Makhosi Khoza, have recently broken ranks, calling for the removal of Zuma.