Pietermaritzburg- &ldquo;Two wrongs don&rsquo;t make a right.&rdquo; That is the Department of Education&rsquo;s reaction to a video on social media of a brawl involving a Carter High School pupil and two women who claimed to be parents of pupils.In the graphic video that swept local social media on Monday, two women who claimed to be parents confront the pupil about allegedly bullying &ldquo;their children&rdquo; on the school premises. During the altercation the women tell the pupil that they are not there to talk, but to hit her like she had hit a younger pupil. &ldquo;You should not have been fighting with the child because she is younger than you. You are our peer and you should not even be at school,&rdquo; said one of the women, with the other encouraging her to hit the pupil.Shortly thereafter one of the women is seen slapping the pupil, while the second one hits the pupil from behind. In a fit of rage, the pupil retaliates by hitting the woman multiple times in the face before turning around and grabbing the one behind her and throwing her over a bench. Some students attempt to intervene before a man attempts to break up the fight.Department of Education spokesperson Muzi Mahlambi said the department was &ldquo;upset&rdquo; over the incident. &ldquo;It upsets us that parents can access the school premises and assault another pupil. Regardless of whether their child was bullied or not, it does not give them the right to go and assault another pupil,&rdquo; said Mahlambi.He said the parents should have reported the pupil to the police and the school. &ldquo;This is why we always emphasise how dangerous bullying is. What started as a bullying incident could spiral into a larger crime as more people get involved.&rdquo; He said the department encourages pupils who are bullied to report incidents to their school and parents. And these parties should take actions that are &ldquo;within the law&rdquo; against the bully. &ldquo;We have buried children over small incidents that could have been resolved easily if everyone had followed the correct protocol in addressing bullying matters,&rdquo; said Mahlombi. A Carter High School spokesperson said the adults who were involved in the incident were not parents of any pupils at the school. &ldquo;The school, including parents, have laid criminal charges against two female individuals who are not parents of this school, and who decided to confront learners of this school with the intent to become violent,&rdquo; said Carter&rsquo;s learner affairs officer, Johan de Goede.He said the school was investigating the incident and disciplinary action could be taken once the investigation was concluded.&ldquo;The school was not aware of the allegations of the bullying of a Grade 11 pupil until after the incident,&rdquo; said De Goede.Police spokesperson Mthokozise Ngobese said the police were aware of the school&rsquo;s intention to open a case of assault against the two women, however, no case had been opened.