Parents at Pelham Primary School have been warned to tell their children not to trust a man who has approached pupils there, telling them their parents have asked him to fetch them.Principal Lorrel Wissing said last night that she had sent out a message to parents with an identikit of the man. She said she wanted to warn parents because he has definitely approached children at the school.Wissing said initially they were not 100% sure that he wasn&rsquo;t a parent of a child when he was first seen lurking around the school. She said the second time he was seen, pupils had approached a sports coach and told him there was someone watching them. &ldquo;The third time, he approached children and told them their father had sent him to fetch them. He asked them to get into his car, a white Toyota Tazz.&rdquo;Wissing said the fourth time he was seen around the school, he was seen taking photographs of the children. &ldquo;The children came to tell me.&rdquo;Wissing said she had received excellent service from the police who came to the school and took identikits from two children, separately.&ldquo;I was stunned. The identikits were mind-blowingly similar. They both showed his scars on his left eye and on his cheek.&rdquo;She said the two children that the man had spoken to had been quite frightened by what had occurred. &ldquo;We have warned all the ground staff and the front office to be on the lookout for this man.&rdquo;Wissing said she had spoken to the children of Pelham about the matter and would be doing so again today in assembly.&ldquo;We have battened down our security. I believe the more people that know about this, the better. I am very concerned on behalf of the children. We have asked them not to walk home alone and to walk in groups. He is crafty enough to try and isolate the children.&rdquo;Wissing said there had been reports that he was also seen at another school, but this could not be confirmed last night.Wissing said if anyone recognised the man from the identikit, they should call 10111 or speak to the Alexandra Road police station.&ldquo;The moment our children are involved, one should not dilly-dally,&rdquo; she said.