The SA Minority Rights Equality Movement (Samrem) has laid a criminal case against Obatala Mcambi, for inciting hatred against whites and Indians.Mcambi is believed to be behind a Facebook post inciting people to &ldquo;kill whites, Indians&rdquo;, and harm their children.Mcambi who is seen in posts holding a gun, posted &ldquo;I use my gun to rob and kill Indians and whites. Please, fellas, join me &hellip;&rdquo;Samrem convenor advocate Ashin Singh said the movement was offering R10 000 to anyone who has information on the whereabouts of Mcambi, whose Facebook account says he is from Durban.Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane confirmed the case was opened.Singh appealed for calm, amid reports that there were people who wanted to drive to Umlazi township to look for Mcambi.&ldquo;Some people wanted to hire izinkabi (hitmen) to sort him out but we said no, that is not how we do it. The law must take its course,&rdquo; he said.Singh said government &ldquo;racist&rdquo; policies had allowed such hate to persist in SA.&ldquo;Penny Sparrow was prosecuted for calling African people monkeys. &ldquo;But when the Mazibuye Forum said they will spill the blood of Indian men and women and water the land of Africa with Indian blood, we opened criminal charges and they were never prosecuted.&ldquo;So it is worse to call African people monkeys but you can happily say we will kill all the Indians and water the land with their blood; nothing will happen,&rdquo; he said.Singh added that SA was a country of haters, saying that is why there is xenophobic violence.&ldquo;Because Zimbabweans, Congolese and even Somalians are seen as successful they are hated. They are black too. They are black Africans, but they are hated because of their success, nothing else. We hate people because of their success and we do not want to compete on merit.&rdquo;Singh said the movement would be bringing a private prosecution against the Mazibuye Forum.Meanwhile, the website crimesa.com has asked people to send them information to track down the alleged racist predator.They wrote: &ldquo;He incites hatred and violence against races other than his own and openly displaying hatred towards our own SAPS. If you have any information on his whereabouts, please send an anonymous message here https://crimesa.com/tip-off/.&ldquo;He uses social media to spread his message of hate &mdash; now we use social media to find him and bring him to justice.&rdquo;Samrem slams racist discrimination of ANCSAMREM has slammed the radical economic transformation being punted by the ANC.The movement said it was only punted to exclude Indians from government tenders.Singh called for a Tender Restitution Commission, where those who are found to have benefited unlawfully from government tenders, must pay back.&ldquo;But apart from the Guptas and other corrupt Indians, Indian wealth is not built on tenders. It exists pre-apartheid days.&ldquo;The tender bubble is going to burst very soon and all those people who have been living their lifestyle on tenders, are going to fall,&rdquo; he said.He said Indians were still deprived of opportunities despite being previously disadvantaged by apartheid laws: &ldquo;Currently the SA Constitution &hellip; makes provision for Indians to be excluded from medical school, from universities, laws, bursaries and jobs. &ldquo;White people who have white monopoly capital and the land, get 7,5% quota. And children who cannot get 60% are admitted to medical school because of race.&ldquo;African, Coloured and White children need lower marks than an Indian child in government school to get to medical school. That is entrenched discrimination based on intelligence. Why should an Indian child need 93% and children of other races can get on from 60% upwards,&rdquo; he said.