Eastwood virginity tester Balungile Ngubane&rsquo;s passion is helping young girls refrain from sex to avoid unplanned pregnancies and diseases.&ldquo;I work as a full-time receptionist and in my spare time I, along with women who carry the same passion as myself, dedicate our time to guiding and raising young girls in communities around Pietermaritzburg.&ldquo;Growing up, my grandmother would constantly check if I was still a virgin. I never felt violated or abused in any way as it encouraged me to not have sex and maintain my virginity. I remember how I would boast and encourage my friends to also come to my grandmother&rsquo;s house to get tested and I think that is where it all began.&ldquo;When I got married, God blessed me with three daughters and I did what my grandmother had taught me. I tested my children and they also had no problems with it. I ended up joining a local virginity testing organisation founded and headed by Gog&rsquo;Nomagugu Ngobese. Down the line one of my daughters fell pregnant. I was so disappointed and opted to stop testing young girls.&rdquo;&ldquo;My granddaughter grew up and when she was about six years old she started asking me about the virginity testings and begged me to join the virginity testing community. I eventually agreed and went back to work with Gog&rsquo;Nomagugu. My granddaughter is now 14 years old and loves everything about virginity testings,&rdquo; said Ngubane.Ngubane said once a month they have a camp with girls from all over Pietermaritzburg at Gog&rsquo;Nomagugu&rsquo;s house where they conduct physical examinations to determine if the girls have ever had sex, advise them, and educate them about life.&ldquo;The aim of these camps is to guide and mould all these young girls into respectful and successful young women.&ldquo;We encourage them to abstain from any sexual activities and we do not condone dating as that is where it all starts.&ldquo;This is just our effort to curb teenage pregnancies and trying to prevent diseases in our youth.&ldquo;At the camp we often have Zulu dancing and singing classes followed by a session where we all sit down and talk about serious issues affecting their lives.&ldquo;It is always heartbreaking to see one of our girls failing along the way and falling pregnant or losing their virginity. It feels as if our efforts and hard work were all in vain. It is absolutely tragic,&rdquo; she said.&ldquo;We never force anyone to get tested and we do not encourage any parents to do so. We are very fortunate that with our girls it is always voluntary and we sometimes witness a child wanting to get tested but the parent is against it.&ldquo;Virginity testing has been practised for hundreds of years and those opposing the tradition are more than welcome to refrain from it, but please just don&rsquo;t spread false rumours about what we do.&ldquo;Gog&rsquo;Nomagugu is a very strict and disciplined woman who takes no bribes. Myself and other women under her leadership also carry the same principles,&rdquo; she said.&ldquo;Everyone is welcomed to join our organisation. We do not discriminate against anyone based on their skin colour or religion.&ldquo;It is always heartwarming and joyful to see one of our girls completing her studies, finding employment and getting married while they&rsquo;re still a virgin,&rdquo; said Ngubane. Ngubane said she sees herself as a person who assists parents raise their daughters as some parents find talking to their children about certain things very uncomfortable.