Bringing vibrant colour, culture and creativity for another year in Pietermaritzburg, Art in the Park returns to Sanbi KZN National Botanical Garden from May 3 to May 7, celebrating its 55th anniversary this year.Sanbi KZN National Botanical Garden, Msunduzi Pietermaritzburg Tourism Association, the KZN Department of Arts and Culture and Creative Arts College have partnered for the event. &ldquo;Art in the Park is one of a handful of selling exhibitions where buyers and the public are able to rub shoulders with the artists,&rdquo; said Dumisani Mhlongo, director at Msunduzi Pietermaritzburg Tourism Association. &ldquo;We have an excellent line-up of exhibitors from all over South Africa with some exciting newcomers.&ldquo;Art has been identified as a tool to overcome barriers among a diverse range of people. It has the ability to inspire and relate across all races, ethnic groups and cultures, and again this year&rsquo;s show will carry &lsquo;Social Cohesion through Art&rsquo; as the main theme,&rdquo; said Mhlongo, adding that the emerging artists&rsquo; component and craft product owners will still feature this year.The theme for this year&rsquo;s Through the Eyes of a Child competition is &ldquo;Saving the Rhino&rdquo;. &ldquo;Through this, children are given licence to draw a visual representation of the theme. School workshops will be run before and on the sidelines of the show,&rdquo; Mhlongo said.Kevin Palium, CEO of Creative Arts College which is the main sponsor of the 55th Art in the Park, said:&ldquo;We have chosen to sponsor this event because it is directly in line with our mandate of development through art. &ldquo;As an exhibition, Art in the Park creates much-needed awareness of this discipline. As a trade fair, Art in the Park stimulates our economy and develops this market. As a platform, Art in the Park brings people together from different walks of life overcoming barriers through mutual inspiration and appreciation.&ldquo;To bring further substance to the event, we will be hosting introductory art classes to the interested public at a designated area in the gardens, free of charge,&rdquo; Palium added.Siphuxolo Ngqasa, marketing and communication officer at Sanbi KZN National Botanical Garden, said: &ldquo;It is with great delight that our property is hosting one of the biggest and prestigious art events in South Africa.&rdquo; She added that the park offers a safe and secure environment, ample facilities to cater for the event and spectacular surroundings for the artists and visitors to enjoy. A diverse entertainment schedule will be announced closer to the show, so keep reading The Witness to find out more.The 55th Art in the Park takes place from May 3 to May 7 at Sanbi KZN Botanical Gardens, Pietermaritzburg. The event will be open from 10 am to 8 pm on May 3 to May 6, and from 9 am to 4 pm on May 7. School groups are welcome by prior arrangement.&bull;Inquiries: Msunduzi Pietermaritzburg Tourism Association at 033 345 1348/9.