Maritzburg United managing director and chairperson Farook Kadodia is confident his side will pull themselves up from a bad week that saw the side lose touch with the Absa Premiership leaders. Having dropped to sixth place in the standings with eight points from five outings, the Team of Choice have gone three games without a win. They have won two and drawn two of their five league games so far, including a 0-0 draw against Orlando Pirates, while only one match has been lost — last week’s 2-0 home defeat to Kaizer Chiefs. Next on the menu are struggling Free State Stars at home on Friday, and the Maritzburg boss predicts a tough encounter, but says coach Fadlu Davids’ men are eager to claim bragging rights. “It is a game that we have to win. I think we have to approach all games in the same way and not under-estimate any team. “We would like to see the same support that we’ve had in our last two home games [against Pirates and Chiefs] at Harry Gwala,” Kadodia told The Witness on Tuesday. He lavished praise on his “professional and hard-working” head coach Davids. “My first priority is to commend the kind of football that our coach is promoting. They are currently playing an attractive brand of football, at high intensity. “The thing is, when you play that kind of football, people expect results. “We just have to win away and at home, and make sure we don’t lose points. The football that is being displayed by the coach is something special. It is admired by the fans.” Kadodia said he wanted the recent frustration to be turned into an appetite for points. Maritzburg will be without the services of attacking midfielder Siphesihle Ndlovu, who is serving a ban, and defender Brian Onyango, who is still injured. Stars are coming off a morale-boosting 3-2 victory over Polokwane City, after going four matches without a win. They will be without skipper Paulus Masehe when they travel to Harry Gwala Stadium. The midfielder is suspended after being sent off for a second bookable offence against Polokwane. Kickoff on Friday is at 8 pm. Tickets are available through Computicket, Shoprite Checkers and at the club offices at R40 for adults and R10 for children under 12 years. 