Many thousands of Cosatu members turned out across the
nation on Wednesday to protest against state capture. Marchers in all centres outside KwaZulu-Natal held posters
aloft calling for President Jacob Zuma to go and criticising the Gupta family.
However, in Durban no anti-Zuma sentiments were aired. Marching down the streets of Durban in blistering sun, the
protesters stuck to anti-Gupta songs. The controversial family were likened to
dogs, with protesters calling for them to leave the country. The main speaker
in Durban, Cosatu president Sdumo Dlamini, called for Zuma to immediately
establish a commission of inquiry to probe state capture. He said it should not only investigate the Guptas’
involvement in state capture: “We want to know who is capturing National
Treasury, which is the reason it has failed to establish a development bank.
That thing is stalling socio-economic transformation,” he said. Protesters in all other centres used Wednesday’s march to
re-affirm their support for Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa to succeed Zuma at
the ANC’s elective conference in December. They sang “Ramaphosa will lead”, and “we are ready for
Ramaphosa”. Most of them were clad in CR17 T-shirts and caps after the campaign
name for the Ramaphosa camp. Dlamini dismissed talk of a compromise candidate, saying the
union will stick with their choice.  “People have been saying to us there are seven other
candidates, why we do not want to try them? Our answer is simple, we have made
our choice. Our choice is Cyril Ramaphosa. He is the only one that will be able
to help us fight corruption.” The call for Ramaphosa to lead was also echoed by SACP
chairperson and cabinet minister Senzeni Zokwana and Sanco NEC member Zanele
Hlatshwayo, who is the former Msunduzi mayor. Dlamini also used the opportunity to fire back at his
detractors including Saftu general secretary Zwelinzima Vavi, who he told to
mind his business. The march was also joined by other prominent SACP leaders
including former cabinet minister Yunus Carrim, former eThekwini mayor James
Nxumalo and Sanco NEC member Sthenjwa Nyawose. They handed their memorandum to
the Office of the Premier, Department of Labour and the Durban Chamber of
Commerce at the Durban City Hall.  Elsewhere around the country, many thousands took to the
streets in open protest against Zuma and against corruption. Prominent figures
with the ANC-led alliance who took part in Wednesday’s protest included Higher
Education Minister Blade Nzimande, Public Works Deputy Minister Ben Martins and
National Assembly deputy speaker Lechesa Tsoneli. Addressing protesters in Johannesburg, Nzimande said it
would be unfair to expect workers to fold their arms while members of the Gupta
family and other corrupt businesspeople were “looting the economy”. “The Guptas are undermining our capacity to fight against
monopoly capital. But we’re not going to keep quiet when the ANC is being
stolen in broad daylight,” he said.