Outspoken MP Makhosi Khoza is keeping mum about her plans after dramatically quitting the ANC yesterday, but has rejected suggestions she may be joining the Democratic Alliance. Her announcement at a press conference on Thursday morning elicited sharply contrasting responses, with a wave of support on social media and biting criticism from former party colleagues. Khoza said she was leaving because the ANC had become a corrupt organisation. “I want to say goodbye to the new, alien and corrupt ANC. I quit,” she said. “I will not be led by leaders who lost legitimacy and credibility. “I am not going to join the DA [however] I am not leaving the ANC mission. There is a distinction between the ANC values and its leaders.”  She told those gathered at the briefing that she had been inundated with calls from members of the ANC who told her they believed the party could “self-correct”. “I don’t believe the ANC can self-correct,” an emotional Khoza said. “This self-correction is not coming. There’s no chance to survive unless as [ANCWL president] Bathabile Dlamini calls it, you have smallanyana skeletons.”  Amid an outpouring of support for her on social media, Economic Freedom Front Member (EFF) Seshele Makgobathe said on Facebook SA was ready for her leadership.  “You didn’t leave the ANC, the ANC left you like it is leaving all South Africans. You are free now. We will always love and support you,” Lesego Maake wrote on the former MP’s Facebook page. But former colleagues had a dim view. The ANC Women’s League in KwaZulu-Natal said it welcomed her departure. “The decision is long overdue as Makhosi Khoza was no longer operating within the ANC constitution — she really had become a huge embarrassment to us at the ANCWL,” the organisation’s provincial secretary, Nonhlanhla Gabela, said. One of her biggest critics in the ANC, uMkhonto weSizwe Military Veterans’ Association chairperson Kebby Maphatsoe, said it was obvious from the beginning of Khoza’s troubles with the ANC that she wanted to leave the party. He claimed she wanted it to appear as though she had been pushed out of the party. “Good riddance, [it’s] good that she voluntarily left the ANC,” said Maphatsoe. Earlier in Johannesburg Khoza had said: “It is with a heavy heart that I have to say that this is no longer the ANC that I know. This ANC is alien and corrupt. The ANC has been hijacked by this alien and corrupt type. I reject its leaders, but I do not reject the members of the ANC.”  Khoza has been criticised by some of her comrades for speaking out against President Jacob Zuma. She was also facing a disciplinary hearing called by the ANC in KwaZulu-Natal after she announced that she would vote according to her conscience in a motion of no-confidence against Zuma. The ANC in KZN has, however, said this was because she had brought the party into disrepute with her continued criticism of Zuma in the public domain.  “Yes colonialism oppressed us. Yes apartheid oppressed us. But it’s more painful when your own people oppress you,” said Khoza, who had her children with her at the briefing. The former chairperson of the public service and administration portfolio committee said she humbled herself before the ANC leadership over recent months.  She also thanked several women within the ANC for supporting her. These included Barbara Masekela, Gertrude Shope, Lindiwe Mabuza, Frene Ginwala, Winnie Madikizela-Mandela and Sheila Sisulu.