As KwaZulu-Natal’s matriculants start counting the days to their final examinations, the Education Department is hoping for an improvement by at least 10% in the pass rate this year. The matric examinations are now less than 30 days away. Last year, KZN was the third worst performing province with a pass rate of 66,4%, although this was an improvement from 60,7% in 2015. This year the department aims to improve the pass rate by at least 10 percentage points. Matric examinations begin with foreign languages papers on Monday, October 23. The English paper will be written on Tuesday, October 24. Examinations will take place over six weeks, with the last paper being written on November 28 for those doing practical examinations. Speaking at the Greater Edendale Mall last Friday to mark the 30 days countdown, KZN Education MEC Mthandeni Dlungwane said the target was to increase this year’s pass rate to 76,4%. “Our main aim is to increase the pass rate percentage,” he said. “We also want to focus on the numbers and the quality of passes that we will get. “We believe we must emphasise the quality of passes by increasing the total of Bachelor passes.” Dlungwane said the department wants to make society aware that the matric exams were looming. “We want to pass on the message of the importance of the National Senior Certificate examinations. It’s high time that our pupils ensure that they are ready.” He said part of the academic improvement plan is to achieve an improvement of the pass percentage in 12 educational districts in KZN. “Our plan was approved and adopted by all relevant bodies, it was released to districts in order for districts, schools and subject plans to be aligned to it,” the MEC explained, He said in preparation for the finals, supplementary tuition programmes are on offer. “The programme includes morning, afternoon and weekend classes; winter and spring classes/camps and school revision programmes. “The supplementary tuition programme is a co-ordinated attempt of the system to ensure that schools provide pupils, especially in under-performing schools and under-performing subjects, with expanded opportunities to increase their chances of success.” Dlungwane urged pupils to put in the extra work to ensure they receive good results. “We have done everything we can as the department. It is now up to our pupils to focus on their books and ensure that they pass. “It is not going to take a miracle, they need to work hard to succeed,” Dlungwane said.