Sharks coach Robert du Preez has expressed his
disappointment at the Springbok coaching staff’s decision to release his young
and exciting wing S’bu Nkosi after a few days with the national team. Last week, the 21-year-old Nkosi received probably the best
news of the season when he was called up to the national team for the first
time. However, his joy was short-lived when he got released
together with his capped team-mate Daniel du Preez on Tuesday, after they had
joined the Bok camp just on Sunday. The Springboks have been preparing to
entertain Australia in the Rugby Championship on Saturday in Bloemfontein. Nkosi has been in fine form for the Sharks in the Currie
Cup, where he is a top try scorer at the moment with eight to his name. That’s
one of the reasons coach Du Preez decided to slot him into the starting line-up
for tomorrow’s clash against the Golden Lions at King’s Park at 7.15 pm. “While I’m pleased to have him back for Friday night, I’m
also disappointed with him not getting a shot there, but I’m hoping it will
happen soon,” said Du Preez yesterday. “I think he would have gained invaluable
experience with just being part of that Boks set-up. I spoke to him yesterday
he said it was really good for him and I think it will be great for his
confidence, just reward for all of his hard work and form for the season.” However, what caused an outcry about Nkosi being released
from the Boks was that the trip seemed too short for him to learn anything in
terms of international play. “I think it’s good that he got the taste of it. To know what
it feels like because being part of that environment, especially for young
guys, it’s quite daunting going there if you have never been there,” the coach
said. “It’s good that they get exposed that sort of thing, but I would rather
not comment too much on it.” With both Nkosi and Du Preez making it into the team to take
on the Lions, the Sharks will only have two forced changes from the team that
defeated the Blue Bulls last week. Jeremy Ward is out with a collarbone injury and his place
has been taken by Tristan Blewett, who will make his run-out debut. “I have
been very happy with Tristan. He did well for us. He is a guy that has been
knocking on our door for a long time and he has been working hard. And it’s
great to blood the youngsters,” said Du Preez. The other change sees Franco Marais back at hooker for
Chilliboy Ralepelle, who is with the Boks. TEAMS Sharks: 15 Garth April, 14 Odwa Ndungane, 13 Tristan
Blewett, 12 Marius Louw, 11 S’bu Nkosi, 10 Curwin Bosch, 9 Michael Claassens, 8
Daniel du Preez, 7 Jacques Vermeulen, 6 Keegan Daniel, 5 Ruan Botha (capt), 4
Tyler Paul, 3 Ross Geldenhuys, 2 Franco Marais, 1 Thomas du Toit. Subsititutes:
16 Armand van der Merwe, 17 Juan Schoeman, 18 Jean Droste, 19 Lubabalo Mtembu,
20 Cameron Wright, 21 Inny Radebe, 22 Rhyno Smith.   Golden Lions: 15 Jaco van der Walt, 14 Sylvian Mahuza, 13
Harold Vorster, 12 Rohan Janse van Rensburg, 11 Aphiwe Dyantyi, 10 Ashlon
Davids, 9 Marco Jansen van Vuren, 8 Fabian Booysen, 7 Cyle Brink, 6 Kwagga
Smith, 5 Marvin Orie, 4 Rhyno Herbst, 3 Jacobie Adriaanse, 2 Robbie Coetzee, 1
Jacques van Rooyen (capt). Substitutes: 16 Sti Sithole, 17 Pieter Jansen, 18 Johannes
Jonker, 19 Robert Kruger, 20 Len Massyn, 21 Bradley Thain, 22 Anthony
Volmink/Stokkies Hanekom. 