Vagrants have taken over an abandoned house in Northdale and nearby residents are calling on the municipality to intervene.  According to residents in the Khan Road area in Northdale, the house has been stripped of all its contents and fittings and now shelters vagrants and drug addicts.  One of the neighbours, David Pillay, said that since the tenants who were renting the property moved out in February this year, “the house was slowly stripped and left as a shell”. “It has just been an uphill battle with this property. We have invested a lot of money in our properties but this house is a complete eyesore and is now attracting the wrong crowd to our neighbourhood,” he said.  Pillay said that since February his property next to the vacant house has been broken into and belongings stolen from his yard. “I am not sure how else we can solve this problem. The house has become a shelter for people living on the street.  “The boys are doing drugs there and I am not sure if it is them or other people that are coming around and dumping filth in the yard,” Pillay said.  He and other neighbours have watched “day in and day out as piece by piece” the abandoned house was reduced to a shell. Pillay said that copper pipes, taps, wash basins, windows and window panes and other household materials were broken and stolen by vagrants.  “This house was well kept at some point and it is quite sad to see it looking like this now.  “The owner is uninterested and we need the municipality to track him down and hold him accountable,” he said.  Pillay said that the owner is known to the residents and numerous calls to him proved “worthless”. “He is not interested in the property. I tried calling him many times and as soon as he hears it is me on the other line, he drops the call,” Pillay said.  Witness Warriors also tried calling the property owner since last Thursday but the man did not answer his phone. The name of the property owner is known to Witness Warriors and we will continue to call him to find out how he intends to sort the issue out.  Pillay said he reported the issues to the Msunduzi Municipality and received reference numbers from the call centre agents. Msunduzi Municipality did not respond to questions regarding this abandoned house.  “It is disgusting and we cannot continue to live like this.  “We have invested in our homes and now this property will bring down the value of our properties,” Pillay said. 