Road users can expect “extremely busy” traffic conditions today with an estimated 2 000 cars per hour expected to drive through the Mooi River toll plaza.  The high traffic volumes are expected as holiday makers return home following the long weekend.  N3 Toll Concession (N3TC) spokesperson Con Roux said it had been a busy weekend but they were expecting on Monday to be the worst. Roux said traffic at the Mooi River toll plaza peaked at 1 600 cars per hour travelling toward Durban on Thursday afternoon. An average of 1 200 cars an hour had driven through the Mooi River toll plaza toward Johannesburg on Thursday. “On Friday we had about 1 100 cars per hour and Saturday was fairly quiet,” said Roux. “Monday will be crazy busy,” he said. Roux added that although traffic volumes were fairly low on Saturday, eight car crashes had occurred along the N3. “It appears that when people are driving in peak traffic conditions, they tend to concentrate on the road more and there is not really room to speed,” he said. “We have also noticed a number of single motor vehicle crashes.” Roux said the single vehicle crashes spoke of “distraction” and “reckless disregard for the consequences” of negligent driving. “We urge people to drive safely and responsibly, especially when the roads are busy.” He also urged people to keep a safe following distance between other cars and to not “sit in the right hand lane” if they were not going the correct speed as it could cause people to weave in between traffic and cause accidents. “We have also seen more people sending voice notes on their phones while driving instead of texting and driving. “Sending voice notes still takes your attention away from the road and can be a killer,” he said. KwaZulu-Natal experienced multiple crashes this weekend, with several fatalities. Seven people were killed on Sunday near Stanger in the Illembe District, after a car crashed into a dam. KZN EMS spokesperson Robert McKenzie said the car crashed into the dam while travelling on the R74 near Maphumulo. McKenzie said a 10-month-old boy and a three-year-old girl were among the dead. Two men were killed and three others injured in a collision between a truck, an SUV and a car on the N3 near the Richmond Road off-ramp in Pinetown on Saturday night. Rescue Care operations manager Garrith Jamieson said an SUV had crashed into the rear of a truck and a third vehicle was involved.  Jamieson said three people were “entrapped in the SUV”.  He said the two rear passengers suffered fatal injuries and were declared dead at the roadside. “The driver was critically injured and severely entrapped,” Jamieson said. He added that advanced life support paramedics placed the man on a manual ventilator while the Durban fire department used the Jaws of Life to free him. The driver and passenger were transported to a nearby hospital.  The driver of the light motor vehicle was also transported to a nearby hospital for further care. Another incident, in Phoenix, Durban, saw four men killed in a single vehicle accident on Saturday night. Reaction Unit South Africa said the accident occurred on Phoenix Highway near the Trade Centre intersection. “It is alleged that a gold Toyota Corolla was travelling out of Phoenix when the driver lost control and crashed into a concrete barrier in the centre of the road,” said Reaction Unit. “Two of the deceased have been identified as brothers.” Another incident, near Taylor’s Halt on Edendale Road on Saturday, left a one-year-old with serious injuries. An ER24 paramedic said the vehicle, a Toyota Corolla, had rolled leaving the mother of the baby and the passenger with minor injuries. Another accident, on the N3 between Ashburton and Market Road, saw one car rear end another before hitting the bridge barrier, and crashing into the bridge’s pillar below. The driver was rushed to hospital with serious injuries.