Pietermaritzburg police have analysed city crime trends and warned local businesses not to stay open late. Pedestrians have also been warned about criminal activity in city hotspots. Police spokesperson Captain Khosi Khonjelwayo said: “The police crime threat and trend analysis indicates an increase in robberies committed in business premises that have extended trading hours.” Khonjelwayo advised business owners to install or increase their security cameras, tighten access control to their business premises, employ additional security guards to monitor movement of clients and avoid keeping large sums of cash on their premises during extended business hours. She also asked them to avoid displaying expensive items like computers and cellphones and to lock them away. “Business communities are encouraged to communicate and interact with other business people in their street or vicinity,” said Khonjelwayo. Pedestrians were also warned about criminal activity in the city centre. Khonjelwayo said the crime hotspots in the city included Church, Boshoff, Prince Alfred, Chief Albert Luthuli, Boom, Retief, Masukwana and Pietermaritz streets. She warned pedestrians to be alert and aware of their surroundings at all times, and offered these crime prevention tips: • If you are carrying a large amount of money ask friends or relatives to accompany you. • Do not speak to strangers and ignore people who ask to share fake money found on the street. • Hide your cellphones when walking on the street. Criminals approach from behind, grab the cellphone and run away. • Criminals operate in gangs. If you suspect that you are being followed, go inside the nearest shop or business premises and contact the police. • In some cases victims are forced to hand over their cellphones at gunpoint, which they do fearing for their lives. • Do not resist when being robbed or threatened — statistics show those who do so get injured or killed. • Do not answer your cell phone on busy and congested streets or public places — go into the nearest shop.