After five rounds of
matches, the National First Division log table is starting to take shape but it
does not make for good reading for Royal Eagles faithfuls. The Pietermaritzburg-based side have endured a dismal start
to the 2017/18 campaign, which has left them in the drop zone. But club general manager James Dlamini believes his team can
still be successful this season. “It’s been a tough start. But nothing has changed. We still
want promotion. We have only played five games and we still have 75% [of the
season left] to right our mistakes and make up for those dropped points.” With just three points from a possible 15, Eagles sit
rock-bottom of the table after five league games, and are yet to get a taste of
victory. Goals are just as hard as points to come by for the Midlands
side. Having lost on two occasions, Eagles are coming off their third one-all
draw of the campaign, after visiting Super Eagles in a match that saw many
chances go begging last weekend. The previous two draws were away to rookies uThongathi and
at home to Stellenbosch, while two games have been lost on the road to AmaTuks
and Highlands Park. Currently under the new guidance of interim coach Zipho
Dlangalala, Dlamini said the side would come good soon and win matches. He feels that while they have been playing good football,
the poor outcomes have been due to bad finishing in front of goal.  He explained: “We just need to score goals. We don’t concede
much but we create a lot of chances. Like in our last game [against Super
Eagles], we should have scored more goals. We realise we have a lot of work to
do in order to turn things around.”  Dlangalala was asked to take over the coaching reins on a
caretaker basis, following the departure of head coach Allan Freese last week. When asked about the vacant coaching role, Dlamini insisted
that Dlangalala would remain in the hot seat until further notice. “We want him [Dlangalala] to instil belief and a winning
mentality. He is bringing his talent and experience to us. We need to give him
a chance and support him. We are not looking for a new coach yet. We’ll see how
he does,’’ he explained. The PMB outfit next travel to neighbours Richards Bay in
uMhlathuze, who will be full of confidence and provide a tough challenge for
the visitors after defeating Tshakhuma Tsha Madzivhandila 3-1 on Saturday.  “We are expecting a tough game from the ‘Rich Boys’. They’re
a local side and we know how bad they want promotion. We also want the same
thing. Nothing has changed. They have home advantage and they have just
recorded their first win.” The Richards Bay side, formerly known as Thanda Royals, are
11th on the table with one win, two losses and as many draws. Meanwhile, Highlands Park have appointed Owen da Gama as
their new head coach. They have parted ways with coaches Thierry Mulonzo and his
assistant Les Grobler following five games at the helm this season. 