Pietermaritzburg - A Facebook post on Mooi Mpofana mayor Xolani Duma’s account showing a pistol next to him, has caused a public outcry. On Thursday community members who had marched to the municipal offices to demand that Duma step down, questioned whether the pistol was licensed. They also demanded to know why the mayor needed bodyguards if he owned a firearm. In a series of photos, Duma, clad in an ANC T-shirt bearing the face of the longest serving ANC president Oliver Tambo, can be seen lying on a bed next to a pistol. He quickly deleted the photo. By the time of going to press he had not, however, deleted another photo on his account which showed a pistol, ammunition and cartridge. The post read “ungangisabisa, ungangishisa, ungangimashela, kodwa ngikulento NDZ17, Nkosazana sikhokhele we are ready for a woman president”, (You can intimidate me, burn me, march against me, but I still say NDZ17, Nkosazana lead us). Sandile Mahlaba, who led the protest on Thursday, said he felt the photos posted on Monday had been posted to intimidate community members not to take part in yesterday’s march. “It is really disappointing that a mayor would intimidate community members who were intending on having a peaceful march,” he said. ANC provincial spokesperson Super Zuma said the party would investigate the matter. Attempts to get comment from Duma were unsuccessful on Thursday. Residents have demanded that Duma step down. “The mayor has court cases that are pending regarding the issue of unlawful and forced removal of legitimate owners of a number of RDP houses, including the house that he occupies,” said Mahlaba. He said Duma was using the municipal vehicle for his personal use, travelling as far as Gauteng and Sodwana Bay, in the north of the province. “He further uses a private individual not employed by the municipality or authorised to drive a municipal vehicle to perform all his private work,” he said. The municipality was given 14 days to respond to demands of the community.