Sharks coach Robert du Preez is convinced that the selection
of S’busiso Nkosi and Louis Schreuder by the Springboks’ coaching staff is
proof that the Durbanites are on course to make the province a top producer of
talent for the national team. The exciting duo’s hard work for the Sharks in the Currie
Cup hasn’t gone unnoticed as they are set to join the Boks in camp on Sunday
for the Rugby Championship. The Boks will host Australia in Bloemfontein on September
30, before entertaining New Zealand in Cape Town on October 7. Both Nkosi and Schreuder have played a pivotal role in
helping the Sharks reach the summit of the Currie Cup, where they have a
whopping 39 points from nine matches. “That’s what we want to do, you know [produce more players
for the Boks] — I think this province has a proud history of producing Boks and
there is more to come,” said Du Preez yesterday. “I think their selection is
fantastic and well-deserved. As I said to them in a meeting this morning, they
also have to thank their fellow players because they are the guys that got them
there.” The 21-year-old Nkosi is the top try scorer in the
competition with seven to his name and looks to add more tomorrow when the
Sharks take on the Blue Bulls at King’s Park at 3 pm. Du Preez said he expected his young wing Nkosi to use his
time with the national team to take his game to another level. “He is a guy with an incredible work ethic and obviously has
a lot of talent, with his feet firmly on the ground,” said Du Preez, whose men
will bid to confirm a semi-final spot this weekend. “He is a hard worker and will get even better. And Louis
too, I think he has had a very good Super Rugby season and coming here, he
slotted straight in. He has been a big part of how we have played over the
last  couple of weeks. “I’m really pleased for both of them, it’s fantastic.” While Nkosi will be in camp with the senior nationals for
the first time, Schreuder did receive a call-up four years ago as a reward for
his performance in the Super Rugby season for the Stormers. However, the
scrumhalf is not available for tomorrow’s meeting with the Bulls due to family
commitments and has been replaced by Michael Classens. Chiliboy Ralepelle and Daniel du Preez, who both recently
returned from the Boks, are starting at number two and number eight
respectively. At prop, Thomas du Toit starts while Juan Schoeman has been
relegated to the bench. Jacques Vermeulen will wear the number seven jersey
with Tyler Paul is moving to number four.  “I’m very pleased with the team that we have assembled. We
know that’s going to be a very tough encounter and we have to step it up from
last week,” said the coach. With their huge lead in the standings, the Sharks could
claim a semi-final berth with a draw, but will be out for yet another win and
look ahead to a home semi-final in the Currie Cup.   TEAMS SHARKS: Garth April, Odwa Ndungane, Jeremy Nel, Marius Louw,
S’busiso Nkosi, Curwin Bosch, Michael Claassens, Dan du Preez, Jacques
Vermeulen, Keegan Daniel, Ruan Botha (capt), Tyler Paul, Ross Geldenhuys,
Chiliboy Ralepelle, Thomas du Toit. Substitutes: Franco Marais, Juan Schoeman,
Jean Droste, Tera Mtembu, Cameron Wright, Tristan Blewett, Rhyno Smith.   BULLS: 15 Warrick Gelant, 14 Duncan Matthews, 13 Burger
Odendaal (capt), 12 JT Jackson, 11 Johnny Kotze, 10 Marnitz Boshoff, 9 Ivan van
Zyl, 8 Jano Venter, 7 Jannes Kirsten, 6 Nic de Jager, 5 Aston Fortuin, 4 Ruben
van Heerden, 3 Conraad van Vuuren, 2 Edgar Marutlulle, 1 Pierre Schoeman. Substitutes: 16 Johan Grobbelaar, 17 Matthys Basson, 18 Tim
Agaba, 19 Marco van Staden, 20 Piet van Zyl, 21 Handre Pollard, 22 Ulrich
Beyers.   CURRIE CUP FIXTURES: TODAY Cheetahs v Pumas — 5.30 pm TOMORROW Sharks v Bulls — 3 pm WP v Griquas — 5.15 pm