Pietermaritzburg - The indelible gunshot scar on the lower part of Thulasizwe Mathenjwa&rsquo;s neck does not only remind him of how he almost lost his life, but also how his life changed.If it had not been for the incident &mdash; in which Mathenjwa was ambushed by a group of men on his way back from collecting a drug stash about seven years ago &mdash; he would not have been a graduate of the University of KwaZulu-Natal last week.Mathenjwa (30) graduated with a Bachelor of Social Science degree at the Westville campus, with majors in Geography and Environmental Management. After his mother, a single parent who worked for many years as a domestic worker, had died, Mathenjwa said his life changed.After matric, to make ends meet, he found a job. But this was not enough to fulfil his financial obligations. &ldquo;I soon found another job but it was not paying enough. The company produced lotions and my job there was to clean the machines. But I was allergic to the chemicals they used and I had to quit it,&rdquo; Mathenjwa said.'I had to do it'&nbsp;Then his life of selling drugs began. &ldquo;It was not an easy decision to make. I knew one day I might land up in jail or be killed. I knew it was dangerous but I had to do it for my two sons and my sister. &ldquo;I did it for us to pay rent, buy clothes, and live a normal life like others.&rdquo; One Friday night in November 2010, Mathenjwa left his Umlazi home to collect drugs, but he was ambushed by a group of men. He was shot in the neck during the altercation. Clairwood Hospital, where he spent 15 months recovering, became his second home. &ldquo;I believe that if I had spent a few weeks in hospital, I would have gone back to the same life. Basically, it was not the gunshot that changed my life but the months I had to spend in hospital,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;I then asked a social worker to help me apply to the university and I was accepted.&rdquo; Mathenjwa has now bagged an internship at the Department of Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs and is pursuing an honours degree in the same field.