An urgent call for speed humps on busy Hesketh Drive has yet again been raised. Another light pole was knocked down on Thursday morning and Hayfields residents believe the introduction of speed humps in the area would have prevented it. Residents in the area said they are &ldquo;extremely frustrated&rdquo; with the municipality since their pleas &ldquo;only fall on deaf ears&rdquo;. &ldquo;I do not know how many times in the last few years we have begged the municipality for speed humps to be constructed on Hesketh [Drive]. It is as if they [the municipality] are waiting for someone to lose their life before they do anything about it,&rdquo; said a Hayfields resident, who asked not to be named.Another desperate resident said the repeated requests to Msunduzi Municipality have left them frustrated. The woman, who also asked not to be named, said it was strange that &ldquo;quieter suburbs&rdquo; received speed humps while Hesketh Drive was ignored. &ldquo;We have sent numerous letters to our ward councillor and logged complaints and requests directly with the municipality, but it is all still ignored. &ldquo;This is a serious call for assistance and we needed those speed humps yesterday,&rdquo; said the woman. Msunduzi municipal spokesperson Thobeka Mafumbatha did not respond to questions on Thursday, but in a previous comment, she said that she could not determine how long the waiting list was for speed humps on city roads. Previously, Mafumbatha said the procedure started with the transportation engineer who received, assessed and prioritised requests for speed humps from ward councillors, the traffic department and residents. She had explained the requests were technically evaluated by technicians using accident data and the hazard level on a particular site to see if speed humps were warranted, and then prioritised accordingly.The manager for transportation planning in the city would then submit a report to council for approval and the approved list would then be implemented when the budget was allocated.