The Pietermaritzburg Chamber of Business (PCB) has joined four other regional business chambers and several large corporations in breaking their affiliation from the South African Chamber of Commerce &amp; Industry (Sacci). PCB CEO Melanie Veness said on Monday the decision was not taken lightly, as they were cognisant that a strong business voice is needed at a national level, particularly at this time of economic uncertainty and political upheaval. She said, however, that advocacy at Sacci had &ldquo;fallen by the wayside&rdquo;, and she believes there are corporate governance and financial irregularities at Sacci. The matter even went to court. &ldquo;We tried every means possible to resolve the challenges at Sacci and to insist on accountability. We took the matter to court, along with the Northern Cape Chamber of Commerce &amp; Industry, the Ekurhuleni Chamber of Commerce &amp; Industry and the Border-Kei Chamber of Business,&rdquo; she said. An agreement was reached with Sacci that the matter be resolved out of court, but to no avail. &ldquo;We cannot remain a member of Sacci under the current circumstances. Remaining affiliated carries significant risk &mdash; financial and reputational,&rdquo; she said. She said the four other chambers involved in the court proceedings had also resigned from Sacci, along with numerous long-standing corporate members of the organisation. &ldquo;We are not consulted before views are expressed, and so the views of our members are not being represented,&rdquo; Veness said in a statement on Monday. &ldquo;Sometimes views are expressed that we do not agree with, and we are of the strong opinion our voice has been compromised. &ldquo;In addition, we believe there to be serious governance failures and financial irregularity at the national body, which leadership do not appear to be willing to deal with.&rdquo; She said PCB&rsquo;s board had indicated that they would consider re-joining Sacci should there be evidence that the affairs of the organisation were being correctly managed. She said the PCB was meeting with other business chambers to look at ways to affiliate the PCB at national level. Sacci president Zeph Ndlovu, also president of the Durban Chamber of Commerce and Industry and GM of Transnet Port Terminals, did not reply to questions from&nbsp;The Witness&nbsp;at the time of going to press.