Every January, once a year and late at night, many roads lead to Southgate petrol station, where matriculants gather to celebrate their matric results. This year was no different. Wednesday night saw a large number of matriculants and parents meet at the petrol station for the celebrations. The evening was full of festivities such as music and the spinning of cars. Manqoba Mnikathi from Weston Agricultural School was overjoyed with passing his matric and plans to study a Bachelor of Arts degree in film production, live performance and photography at AFDA in Durban. &ldquo;I am so proud of my performance and I can&rsquo;t wait for tertiary study,&rdquo; Mnikathi said. Former Haythorne Secondary School pupil Sweetness Molefe, who received a bachelor&rsquo;s pass and distinction for Zulu, said she is delighted with her results. &ldquo;I believe I did very well, I&rsquo;m just happy to have gotten through 12 long years of schooling,&rdquo; she said. Molefe plans to study a Bachelor of Arts at the University of KZN Howard College campus.Joyful Carter High school pupil Zwakele Mchiza said he would be studying medicine at the University of Cape Town or the University of Pretoria this year. &ldquo;I feel awesome. Thank you so much to my family for the constant support and encouragement and also all the teachers at Carter High School for always going the extra mile,&rdquo; said Mchiza. Parent Nonkululeko Ntombela said she is very pleased with her daughter Londeka&rsquo;s results. &ldquo;My child showed dedication and determination during her matric year. That is why she did so well and even managed to get distinctions. I am a very proud parent,&rdquo; she said.Another parent, Zandisile Gasa who lives in Imbali unit 1, said she thanks God for her daughter&rsquo;s good results. She said she is also extremely proud of her daughter&rsquo;s achievement regardless of facing transport problems. &ldquo;My child used to struggle with transport and missed a number of extra classes. However, she managed to get a bachelor&rsquo;s pass with three distinctions,&rdquo; Gasa said. Owner of Southgate petrol station Griet Sher said she does not organise the annual celebrations. However, she was happy to accommodate the elated matriculants, as it has become a tradition for them to have their celebrations at Southgate. &ldquo;They [matriculants] just come here; I have no problem with it. As long as the children are happy I am happy,&rdquo; Sher said. She also said she would like to apologise to the neighbours for the noise that is caused by these celebrations.