Pietermaritzburg - The family of well-known forensic accountant investigator Sandile Mlotshwa (44) are searching for answers after he was found dead in Durban just before Christmas Day.The Mlotshwa family, from Scottsville, said they are &ldquo;completely distraught&rdquo; and have been left in the dark about the circumstances regarding his death.Mlotshwa&rsquo;s brother, Jerry, said he was in contact with his brother just a few days earlier as they were planning their Christmas Day family get-together.The father of one was a senior consultant forensic investigator for international company Integrated Forensic Accounting Services. He was also preparing for his international auditing examinations with the Association of Certified Chartered Accounts.Jerry told The Witness on Thursday that Mlotshwa was expected to arrive in Pieter&shy;maritzburg on Friday, December 23, but he received a call from another family member the day before his expected arrival telling him to go to Point Road police station because Mlotshwa had been found dead.&ldquo;We were told nothing else and drove immediately to the police station. No one could tell us what happened but they told us to identify the body at the Gale Street mortuary,&rdquo; Jerry said.He said the investigating officer told him that Mlotshwa was found without any belongings on him.&ldquo;The officer did not even know where my brother was found dead and said they were still investigating the matter as they only received an anonymous call to say a body was lying on the road side but she [the policewoman] did not know which road it was,&rdquo; he said.Jerry said the first &ldquo;strange&rdquo; turn of events was that although the police said Mlotshwa was found without any belongings, the officer had his brother&rsquo;s identity number.&ldquo;When I asked how they knew his ID number, the policewoman said she found it in his CV. I asked for the CV and they said they could not find it anymore. It is all just so strange because why would he walk around with his CV if he had a perfectly good job that I know he enjoyed,&rdquo; he said.After a day of trying to find answers, Jerry said he was eventually taken to identify his brother&rsquo;s body. He said Mlotshwa was dressed in formal trousers and a white shirt with formal shoes.&ldquo;What was strange was his left sock had been taken off his foot and put into his pocket. I know my brother very well and I know he always kept money in his socks,&rdquo; said Jerry.He had also suffered lacerations on his head.In the days of planning Mlotshwa&rsquo;s funeral, Jerry said he received a call from a relative who said Mlotshwa was last seen at a pub with four policemen and that they could point out where he was found.&ldquo;But we could not get hold of any of these supposed policemen to help us. I just feel like this was a well-planned murder but it seems like the police believe he just fell on the side of the road.&ldquo;I feel like the police are hiding things from us. We just want answers,&rdquo; said a tearful Jerry.Provincial police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said a case was opened for an inquest at the Point police station after Mlotshwa&rsquo;s body was found on the side of Gillespie Street.He said Mlotshwa had injuries on his body and circumstances surrounding his death were still under investigation.Jerry described his brother as a friendly and intelligent man.&ldquo;I lost a piece of me when Sandile died. He was our hope in the family with his success and intelligence,&rdquo; he said, adding that more than 3 500 people attended his funeral.In 2001 Mlotshwa worked at Roshan Morar and Associates and in 2004 was appointed by the KZN Law Society as an audit inspector. He co-pioneered their Reform Audit Support System. In 2013 he joined Thabani Zulu and Co. Chartered Accountants and has worked at numerous other reputable accounting firms across the country.Mlotshwa&rsquo;s close cousin, Henry Makhatini, said the family are &ldquo;distraught and confused&rdquo; at his death.&ldquo;He was a brother to us all; our successful, intelligent brother with so much going for him. We need to get to the bottom of his death,&rdquo; he said.Anyone with information regarding Mlotshwa&rsquo;s death can contact the Point police station at 031 367 4032 or Captain Masuku at 082 777 7494.