With the January transfer window now wide open &mdash; an opportunity for teams across the country to buy, sell and loan players &mdash; football agent Mike Makaab has expressed concern over the ongoing dispute between his client, Philani Zulu, and Maritzburg United.The Durban-based agent told The Witness he has had talks with the club management to try and resolve the issue after the player failed to agree personal terms in a new contract extension. The 24-year-old, who is alleged to be unhappy with his pay, will see out his current deal (on the sidelines), which ends in June this year, before making a decision on his future. But his agent has indicated that he hopes to meet with his client early next week before deciding if he wants to stay. &ldquo;He&rsquo;s contracted to Maritzburg until the end of the season, the 30th of June 2017. Obviously, there&rsquo;s been a fallout between himself and the club management and he&rsquo;s at the moment training by himself.&ldquo;I have met with the club management. I&rsquo;m now just waiting for Philani. He&rsquo;s been away but I&rsquo;m hoping that early next week him and I will get together and try and resolve this issue,&rdquo; he said.Zulu is the latest player to quit The Team of Choice in this manner, following in the footsteps of newly-signed Cape Town City defender Thamsanqa Mkhize, who rejected a new deal after three seasons with the club.And Makaab was hoping to resolve the matter the same way he did with Mkhize last season.The versatile defender was a regular last season, featuring in all their league games when they battled against relegation. He had a brief spell with Orlando Pirates but his contract was terminated before he could even kick a ball. He was then signed by the rebranded Cape Town City on a free transfer, and club chairperson Farook Kadodia revealed to The Witness last week that he was hoping &ldquo;it does not come to that&rdquo; with Zulu.Makaab explained: &ldquo;It&rsquo;s a situation that I&rsquo;m trying to resolve and I&rsquo;m hoping that exactly the same way I&rsquo;ve resolved the Thami Mkhize matter, I&rsquo;ll resolve the Philani Zulu matter because, most importantly, Philani is a talented player and he has to start playing football as soon as possible.&rdquo;Makaab said he was concerned about what Zulu&rsquo;s six-month exile from competitive football might do to his career. &ldquo;Well, the truth is, he can sign a pre-contract with any club of his choice now in January. However, Maritzburg have made life tough for him that he can sit on the sidelines for another six months. I don&rsquo;t have to tell you that a football player that doesn&rsquo;t play competitive football for a season may never return to his best.&ldquo;And you know, Philani is not a youngster, he&rsquo;s not 19 or 20 years old, beginning his career. He&rsquo;s now in the palm of his career and needs to be playing regularly.&ldquo;My objective is to try and resolve the matter as soon as possible to get him to play as quickly as possible,&rdquo; said the former Orlando Pirates coach.He said he believed his client could not work well with former coach Ernst Middendorp, who resigned late last year. &ldquo;I just think that Philani wasn&rsquo;t happy at Maritzburg. Ernst Middendorp is a very tough coach and I think the minute a football player and a football coach don&rsquo;t see eye to eye, it&rsquo;s very hard to retrieve a situation like that.&ldquo;Ernst is a professional man, very stubborn and I think that Philani is a very educated young man and he also has his thoughts and his principles. So, let&rsquo;s say they&rsquo;re two ingredients that you wouldn&rsquo;t ordinarily mix and produce a beautiful cake from,&rdquo; he concluded.It appears that Zulu &mdash; who has only made two starts and one substitution for the club this season, with his last appearance on September&thinsp;24, against Kaizer Chiefs &mdash; might not struggle to find a new home should his current six-month exile by the Team of Choice be lifted. Kadodia said he had been approached by a number of clubs.