Two Pietermaritzburg graduates who have been unemployed for the past two years are upbeat after receiving positive feedback on their hunt for jobs.Sibusiso Buthelezi and Siyanda Bhengu took their job hunting to the streets when they stood with placards detailing their qualifications on Old Howick Road recently. After covering the plight of the graduates then, The Witness received news that Buthelezi went for an interview at a company in Mkondeni while Bhengu has received a call to drop off his CV at the Department of Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta). Buthelezi was interviewed by National Shopfitting Interiors (NSI) on Thursday. The company director Craig Leonnet said his colleague Jay was touched by the story of the two young men after reading it in the paper. &ldquo;When my colleague came and said he was impressed by the two young men after reading a story about them in the paper, we decided to call them in. We spoke to them, showed them around the workplace and asked them to leave their CVs,&rdquo; said Leonnet. He praised the two men and said it was very rare to see young people doing what the pair did.&ldquo;They showed character. We admire what they did. Not all of us can do it; it requires determination, dedication and passion. These guys need a chance and it is exactly what we going to give them,&rdquo; he said.NSI called Bhengu for an interview as they only had one vacant post but Leonnet said they have spoken to another company for a possible placement for Bhengu. Buthelezi said he thinks he nailed the interview and he is hopeful he will receive a call soon.&ldquo;They told me they are interested. This means a lot &mdash; not just to me but also to my family. I will now be able to put bread on the table and help my grandmother,&rdquo; he said. Buthelezi said even though he has not attended any interviews, there is now renewed hope of finally getting a job or at least an internship.&ldquo;Since we went out on the street, I can see the difference. I have received two calls and the private company is really promising. Cogta asked me to drop off my CV and wait to be called.&rdquo; Cogta spokesperson Lennox Mabaso said MEC Nomusa Dube-Ncube was also touched by the story of the young men.&ldquo;At the moment we are trying to see what we can offer them. We are also engaging the private sector and we are optimistic that something positive will happen,&rdquo; he said.