Cyril Ramaphosa’s backers in KwaZulu-Natal say they fought “tooth and nail” to make sure several bogus delegates from the province did not take part in the ANC national conference.  They claimed several delegates had been registered as coming from branches that failed to hold general meetings to elect representatives to attend the conference. On Saturday the issue of bogus delegates threatened to collapse the conference. Proceedings were adjourned on Saturday night because of disagreements on the status of delegates and, as a result, nominations for leadership positions could not be done. The issue was only resolved yesterday afternoon. Ramaphosa supporters claimed victory, saying several bogus delegates had been removed from the venue. The embattled KZN leadership was again accused of inflating its numbers. A source said about 50 bogus delegates from KZN, including prominent ANC Women’s League members, were barred from participating in the conference. KZN was initially allocated 870 delegates but will only be represented by 804 after the verification of delegates. “There are branches who are supposed to be sending one delegate because of their membership, but they are represented by two delegates,” said the source. “The branch of Super Zuma, who is the former provincial secretary, is represented by two delegates here but it is supposed to be represented by one delegate. The same also goes for branches being represented by Sihle Zikalala and the one represented by Mluleki Ndobe. All these branches should be represented by one person but they are represented by two delegates.” He added: “This thing of bogus delegates from KZN was well orchestrated. These bogus delegates were bused in to register on Thursday night because they knew a court judgment that was going to be delivered the following day which would cost them some votes.” Another source claimed the Msunduzi Ward 6 ANC branch, which failed to hold a general meeting, was being represented by a bogus delegate who is a known ANC Women’s League activist. Similar claims were also made about Mpumalanga branches. Dumisani Masina from Mpumalanga’s Nkangala region, Ward 7, fought to have three bogus delegates disqualified. Masina said the branch had failed on three occasions to hold a general meeting but three delegates had been registered. Yesterday Masina said officials at the registration venue were able to help him and the three delegates’ voting rights were reversed. ANC provincial spokesperson Mdumiseni Ntuli said it was not true that they had bused bogus delegates to the conference.