ANC presidential hopeful Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma on Tuesday urged her supporters to accept the outcome of this month’s elective conference whoever emerged as the winner. “All of us should commit ourselves to accepting the results of the conference. Those who win must embrace everybody and those who lose should support the winning candidate,” she said. Dlamini-Zuma was addressing delegates during the closing of the ANC KwaZulu-Natal’s two-day provincial general council (PGC) in Durban on Tuesday. She said that an acceptance of defeat by whoever lost the leadership race would be critical to ensuring that the party did not disintegrate after the conference. Earlier she had made a surprise entry to the conference at Durban’s Olive Convention Centre, where she was greeted warmly by supporters. She also urged delegates to refrain from singing divisive songs at the conference. “At the conference we must sing ANC songs that unite all of us, and not presidential hopefuls’ songs,” she said. Her main rival, Cyril Ramaphosa, has been endorsed by five provinces: Western Cape, Eastern Cape, Northern Cape, Gauteng and Limpopo. Dlamini-Zuma has been endorsed by North West, Free State and KwaZulu-Natal. On Monday the ANC elections commission announced that Dlamini-Zuma had been nominated by 433 branches in KZN compared to Ramaphosa’s 193 in the province. However, the commission on Tuesday said that its earlier figures had not been accurate and that 24 branch nominations had not been captured. The correction resulted in votes cast in favour of Dlamini-Zuma increasing to 454 from 433. On the other hand, the recount resulted in Ramaphosa’s votes in the province dropping from 193 to 191. KwaZulu-Natal will be sending 870 delegates to the conference — the highest number from any province. Dlamini-Zuma is currently trailing behind Ramaphosa in terms of support from branches . However, this could change if Dlamini-Zuma’s camp manage to convince the ANC Women’s League, the Youth League, the Veterans’ league and Mpumalanga province to vote for her at the conference. A majority of votes at the Mpumalanga PGC went to no candidate but instead had “unity” written across them. On Monday, ANC provincial chairperson Sihle Zikalala described ANC leaders calling for an “arranged leadership outcome” or a “unified slate” as opportunists. On Tuesday he stressed that his comments were not directed at Mpumalanga Premier David Mabuza, who had called for factions to come up with a unifying candidate. “In fact we are together with Mpumalanga on the concept of unity,” he said. Zikalala, however, reiterated the province’s stance that Ramaphosa and Dlamini-Zuma should be allowed to exercise their democratic rights to “contest for any position in the ANC”. Addressing delegates at the same gathering, Zikalala took a swipe at the cabinet for not implementing policies endorsed by the ANC’s 2012 national conference. “That conference pronounced itself on the matter of the state bank. After the 2012 conference, the first task of the Finance minister should have been the launch of a state bank. During our deliberations at the PGC we reaffirmed our position that there should be a state bank, state pharmaceutical company and state mine,” he said.