The family of murdered Laduma High School acting principal, Priscilla Mchunu, is outraged and claims the case has been “brushed under the carpet”. They have waited eight months for police to make an arrest and say they have not received any communication on how the case is developing.  Plessislaer police spokesman, Captain Musa Ntombela, confirmed that no arrests have been made as yet. Despite The Witness asking for an update on how the investigations were going, Ntombela had very little to offer other than that police were still following up leads. Mchunu was gunned down in front of her Grade 12 pupils in March during her weekend lessons. The assassination happened two weeks after she was appointed acting principal at the school in Mpumuza, Edendale. At the time, police said Mchunu was teaching when two men came into the classroom and shot her. Police found 19 cartridges at the crime scene. Mchunu had sustained multiple wounds to her head. Speaking to The Witness her daughter, Andiswa, said they were tired of waiting and had started to think that the perpetrators would never be caught. Andiswa added: “Nothing tangible has happened. We are not hearing anything or getting any updates from the police. “Since March, we have been trying to get information ... it’s starting to feel like we’ll never find answers. We feel like everywhere we go, we hit a brick wall.” She remembers the day her mother died clearly: “I received a call to pack my bags and come back home urgently. The whole trip from Johannesburg was so frightening. I knew someone had died. I just wasn’t sure who.” Andiswa said that when she arrived home, her aunt told her the dreadful news, adding: “When I got home I saw that the only person who wasn’t there was my mother. I knew she was gone.” She said that while her family was coping under the circumstances, they wanted the perpetrators to be arrested in order to bring closure. “We want justice. We want the truth; we want to know why she was killed,” she added. Andiswa said the tragedy had been hard on her family, especially her three-year-old cousin. “Visiting home when I know my mother is not there is heartbreaking. It has been exceptionally hard for my three-year-old cousin, who was being raised by my mother, who cannot comprehend what happened. She asks every day when mom is coming back home,” she added. Andiswa and her sibling have resorted to an online-crowd funding campaign, #JusticeforPriscilla to prompt the police to take action. “We can’t sit around and not do anything,” she says. “The campaign is our only response to a failing justice system. “It hurts that the people who killed mom will be with their families having a Merry Christmas and Happy New Year while my mother’s body is rotting in the grave.” Andiswa is convinced her mother was “taken out” because of the principal post, but admitted that prior to her murder she had not received any threatening messages. “If she was threatened it would have afforded her an opportunity to step down from the position. She would still be here today,” she said.