Opposing ANC factions were confident that they would be able to work together after a bruising contest that threatened to split the party. The camps welcomed the results of the conference, saying the will of the branches had to be respected. Spokesperson for the Ramaphosa campaign in KZN, Sthembiso Mshengu, said that while they were disappointed by the fact that their candidate for the secretary-general position, Senzo Mchunu, did not win, they welcomed the results. “We congratulate all the officials from the president to the treasurer-general for being trusted by the branches of the ANC in South Africa. We think the will of the branches has emerged,” he said. Mchunu lost out to Ace Magashule by fewer than 30 votes. “It is unfortunate that we did not get the position of the secretary-general, however, we believe that the collective elected will lead the ANC according to the norms and values of the organisation. Democracy remains the guiding light for us,” said Mshengu. He said their faction had not yet thought about how they would mend relationships among ANC members in the province. Going to the conference, they had alleged there were many irregularities during the branch general meetings that nominated candidates to be elected in the conference. KZN ANC members have remained divided since the 2015 provincial conference, which saw Sihle Zikalala emerge as the provincial chairperson. The results of that conference were nullified by the Pietermaritzburg high court after a long, drawn-out legal challenge. KZN Cosatu provincial secretary Edwin Mkhize said the results of the conference should send a message to the ANC KZN leadership. Although KZN sent the biggest delegation to the conference, no one from the province was elected to any of the top six positions despite two KZN candidates contesting various positions. “We told them before the conference that they need to unite. Without unity, they will never be able to influence national politics,” he said. A key Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma backer, ANC Youth League president Collen Maine, said the league respected the outcomes of the conference and would respect the newly-elected leadership.  He said the results were a sign that the ANC branches wanted ANC leaders to unite to improve the lives of South Africans.  