A Pietermaritzburg magistrate who on Wednesday sentenced a man to life imprisonment said he had committed the rape with “such callous brutality that [it] sends shudders through the spines of any human being with a conscience”.  The man’s name is known to The Witness. He also bludgeoned the woman he raped with a hammer, stabbed her twice in the thigh with a knife and then dragged her to a bathroom where he raped her. The incident happened on March 24 near her workplace in the city. The man went to her office to “beg” her for a job as she had retrenched him in December 2016, he said in his guilty plea. She apparently took out a hammer and he attacked her. Regional court magistrate L. Rusi said he responded to the woman’s resistance with “such brutality”. The man was angered at seeing the hammer and took it away from her. “He then severely assaulted her, stabbed her, then raped her. If he was genuine in pleading for his job, once he disarmed her, he would have left.” Rusi said the woman holding a hammer should have signalled to him that he was an unwanted visitor. Most importantly, he could have left and opened a charge against her. The magistrate added he stabbed her twice to ensure his victim was injured and rendered helpless so that he could have his way with her. It did not end there. She was dragged to a bathroom after the rape and locked there. “He left the premises. That set the scene for a possible disaster because she would not be able to get the medical help she needed.” Rusi said rape is a humiliating, degrading and brutal invasion of the dignity of a victim. It is clear that those convicted of the dehumanising offence should be dealt with appropriately. In this case, it was the man’s intention to cause the woman grievous bodily harm, which attracts the life sentence. The man, she added, had no dependents and dropped out of school in Grade 7. Both his parents died when he was young. Rusi said his attorney had argued that he was relatively young and had the potential to be rehabilitated. He was remorseful. “At the age of 30, he can’t be said to be raw or immature. There is nothing to say he acted in the manner he did because of immaturity ... other than a bold statement from the bar that he was remorseful,” she said. In any event, continued Rusi, he would have had to face overwhelming evidence against him if he pleaded not guilty. Remorse should not be confused with regret. It is not unusual for an accused to feel sorry for himself once convicted. However, this does not translate to genuine remorse.