Durban - A picture is emerging of a “chummy” relationship between Durban businessman Roy Moodley and a senior Durban North police officer, Lieutenant-Colonel Reuben Govender and some officers who work for him. In court papers in various matters, some involving claims against the minister of police for unlawful arrest, both names pop up frequently amid allegations of abuses of power and processes. As recently as last week, the two men were seen together in the Durban Magistrate’s Court building.  A source told The Witness they were going to the 11th floor for a meeting with chief prosecutor Sagren Naidoo. Naidoo is believed to have signed a warrant of arrest for The President’s Keepers author Jacques Pauw. In correspondence with Pauw’s lawyers on the issue, Reuben Govender, cluster commander of the Durban North area — which encompasses Verulam and Phoenix police stations — was named as the investigating officer in the matter.  However, on Tuesday Govender was removed as the investigating officer. News24 reported that police informed the lawyer acting for Pauw and News24 investigative journalist Pieter-Louis Myburgh that Govender has been removed from the case and that they would no longer have to report to the Durban North police station. - Read more: Detective removed from case against Pauw, Myburgh A new investigating officer has been assigned and the docket has been moved to the provincial head office. This after Govender, who has a track record of intimidating suspects and locking them up over weekends, insisted that Pauw and Myburgh present themselves at his office this week to be charged. Govender had refused to disclose what charge or charges Pauw was facing, but they are believed to be related to allegations he makes in his book that Moodley made frequent payments to his friend, President Jacob Zuma. This week The Witness reported on a judgment in which a woman, Shanaaz Ally, successfully sued the minister of Police after she claimed she was arrested at the behest of Moodley. In her evidence, detailed in the court’s judgment, she said she had told Moodley’s wife that he was having an affair. Moodley arrived on the scene and threatened her with arrest, saying he was “going to show her”. Moments later she was arrested by two officers from the Durban North police station, one of whom conceded in evidence that he knew Moodley’s son Magesh — who was listed as the complainant in the matter — well. The charges of attempted murder, crimen injuria and extortion were withdrawn after she made a statement, which was never filed in the docket. In another matter pending before the Durban Magistrate’s Court, a former employee of Moodley’s, Yarnall Munsamy, said she and six other staffers at his Royal Security CC were arrested “in a witch-hunt” and all accused of fraud in February 2011.  She appeared in court more than 10 times before the matter was set down for trial. She was acquitted in January 2015 without having to give evidence. Munsamy was arrested by police officers working for Govender. In her summons she claims to be a victim of malicious prosecution. She said Moodley “used his influences” to persuade the authorities to prosecute her and the five others. Munsamy’s husband Sivanthan Munsamy, a former policeman who worked in the cluster, has also sued for unlawful arrest. In his evidence he said he was told that Govender instructed that he be arrested and a witness would come to court to testify to that effect. He claims his arrest — on allegations of corruption — came about after he became involved in the legal matter between his wife and Roy Moodley. He appeared in court many times before the charges were withdrawn. Moodley’s enemies often get locked up Businessman Vinesh Juglal — who is involved in a R12 million dispute with Moodley over a soured business deal — has been arrested five times. The first time in March 2012, he alleges in court papers, he went to an attorney’s office “at the request of Roy Moodley” thinking he was going to sign a lease and resolve the dispute. When he got there, Moodley was absent.  Instead, Govender was there, handcuffed him and arrested him for fraud, allegedly without a warrant. Govender arrested him a second time on the same fraud allegations in June that year.  The dispute — over the sale by Juglal of a building to Moodley and another businessman, Varish Ganpath — has resulted in a flurry of litigation and several urgent applications brought by Juglal for his release from custody and to stop police harassment. He is also suing the minister of Police and Govender for damages and, in a separate application, Moodley and Ganpath, claiming they “instigated all the charges”. Moodley did not respond to messages for comment on Tuesday. Govender also could not be contacted on Tuesday. He was not at his office and the switchboard operator said he did not have his cellphone number. Referring to the Pauw investigation, SAPS spokesperson Brigadier Vish Naidu said: “We do not comment on matters that are under investigation, especially if suspects have not appeared in a court of law.  “Therefore, if there is such an investigation taking place in this matter we are not at liberty to comment.”