A year after being “headhunted” for his appointment as the manager in the office of the Speaker, Clive Lotz is allegedly yet to do any work there.  That’s according to sources who say the former DA councillor’s appointment was irregular.  The Witness asked municipal spokesperson Thobeka Mafumbatha if Lotz had arrived for work yet and if the City could provide ratepayers with any evidence to prove Lotz had earned his salary. Mafumbatha said: “The matter of Mr Lotz was formally raised by the Democratic Alliance through a Motion of Notice, a procedure/process accommodated through the municipal rules of order bylaws. This is a full council process. This matter will be discussed [on Wednesday] at the sitting of the full council, after which a statement will be issued by the municipality to the media.  “The municipality requests that due process be allowed to its logical conclusion so as not to prejudice and/or undermine the full council process currently under way.”  But the matter was not discussed at the full council meeting last week and no statement was forthcoming. Questions texted to Lotz, including asking what work he had done and if he was going to pay back the money he has earned from Msunduzi, were met with a request that the questions be redirected to Ray Ngcobo. Ngcobo did not respond to the questions, and no longer works for the municipality. The Witness has seen documents that show Lotz was offered a salary package of just over R600 000 when he was appointed on December 1, 2016, and was required to work three months’ probation. But it appears that despite having never arriving for duty during his probation period, his employment was confirmed.  On the appointment approval form for Lotz, it says the post was never advertised and he was headhunted. This in spite of him not having the correct qualifications for the post, a diploma in public administration or an equivalent. On the form there is a comment that says Lotz does not qualify for the post. “Since his CV was the only one provided to Corporate Services, it is the accounting officer’s prerogative to appoint the candidate if the principal — Speaker — has identified him to be the most suitable candidate for the position.”  Further down it again says “NB: Mr C. Lotz does not meet the post requirements, however, it is the accounting officer’s prerogative to appoint him notwithstanding that he does not qualify, after applying his mind accordingly.”  The approval form has three lines drawn through these comments with the words “Why make such comments?” written below. It is believed this was written by then acting city manager Sizwe Hadebe who signed off on the post on the appointment approval form.  According to sources, another Msunduzi employee is doing Lotz’s work. Lotz was elected as the DA councillor for the Woodlands area but resigned and joined the ANC a month after the local government elections last year. During a full council meeting in September, DA councillor Bill Lambert raised his concerns that Lotz was earning around R40 000 per month “and yet he has never stepped foot into City Hall, let alone the Speaker’s office since he was employed in that office”. “The acting City manager was supposed to investigate this ghost employee and bring us feedback,” Lambert said. Hadebe, the acting municipal manager at the time, said he would provide feedback in due course. This is yet to happen, according to sources.