The mother of Kavlin Naidoo, who was shot in a road-rage incident by a former policeman, has wished the killer would shoot her to end her pain.  This emerged from Patsy Naidoo’s victim impact statement handed to Pietermaritzburg magistrate Muntukhayise Khumalo on Wednesday. Khumalo sentenced Kavlin’s killer Thobelani Khuzwayo (39) to 15 years’ imprisonment for murder and another three years for attempting to defeat the ends of justice by laying a false charge of attempted hijacking to cover up what he had done. Khumalo found that Khuzwayo, who was working for the Family Violence Unit at the time, had shown no remorse for his actions. He showed no emotion as sentence was passed. The evidence was that the shooting happened around 10 pm on November 2, 2014 when Kavlin and his brother Davelin were driving Kavlin’s fiancée Sandhani Padayachee home after a family braai. Davelin (who was driving) said that the lane was blocked by a rubbish truck near the intersection of Jabu Ndlovu (Loop) Street and Retief Street. He’d moved into the right lane and then back into the left lane. Khuzwayo’s car came from behind and skidded to a stop in front of their car, blocking their path. Kavlin got out and then Davelin. There were “words and fingers pointing” and then Khuzwayo bent into his car, pulled out a gun and a shot was heard. Kavlin staggered back and fell. On Wednesday state prosecutor advocate Mariam Aboobaker read out four victim impact statements to the court. They were by Kavlin’s parents, brother and fiancée. Each described the psychological, emotional and physical trauma they have suffered as a result of the crime, as well as financial loss. His mother, Patsy, said: “Why have I been slapped with this life-long sentence of living in anguish and torment. The one that shot Kavlin should do me a favour and shoot me. End my pain.” She described in vivid detail her son’s stay in hospital for 20 days before he succumbed to his injuries. She even recalled the “gurgling sounds of the suction pipes inserted through his body”.  Since the death, she and her husband Devedas have had many health problems. She had been hospitalised twice and is on chronic medication, antidepressants and sleeping pills. Her husband explained in his statement he had a heart attack and underwent heart surgery.  “I am currently on chronic medication and being treated for hypertension and diabetes.” The couple are still going for counselling. They also spoke of their financial woes since their son’s death because he took care of them financially. Kavlin had been planning his wedding and building his dream house so they could live with him when he got married. The couple had to move from the family home as they could not handle the memories. Davelin said to handle the pain, he had turned to alcohol and could not hold down a job. He has been struggling to cope ever since. Padayachee went down memory lane recalling how she first met Kavlin and how he became part of her life. She too is still trying to cope with the loss. Aboobaker argued that Khuzwayo does not accept responsibility for his actions and shows no remorse.  “He was a seasoned officer who ought to have known better. He has had almost 10 years’ experience dealing with the victims of crime. He is the author of his own misfortune.” Khuzwayo on the other hand portrayed himself as a submissive, passive gentleman. He said he was a God-fearing person, cared for his family and was trustworthy.  He also said he was a law abiding citizen and if he could re-do what had happened, he would not have acted in a way that resulted in him being charged. He thought the best sentence for him was one that was non-custodial.