The family of a Northdale homeowner who shot and killed an alleged assailant on Sunday claims he acted in self-defence, but despite this he was arrested on a murder charge and spent a night in jail.  The incident took place at the residence of the 44-year-old man and his family on Sunday afternoon. Police identified the victim as the shooting as 25-year-old Sbonelo Mngadi and said he worked for the family concerned and was staying at their property. The homeowner was arrested in the wake of the shooting and spent the night in custody but the matter was not enrolled in court on Monday because the prosecution allegedly regarded the evidence against him as insufficient.  According to Mountain Rise police station spokesperson Captain Gay Ebrahim, the family had just returned from church around 1.30 pm on Sunday when the shooting happened. “They were allegedly confronted by an employee who lived on the premises. He was under the influence of alcohol and a disagreement ensued,” said Ebrahim. Ebrahim said the homeowner’s wife tried to calm the man down and sent him to his room. However, he allegedly returned and entered the house with a knife and attacked the homeowner. That is when he allegedly responded by firing shots in the man’s direction. Mngadi was taken to Northdale Hospital where he died. A relative of the homeowner who spoke to The Witness, said yesterday the family are reluctant to discuss the details of the incident because fresh charges could still be brought against him. The relative said the family had been left extremely traumatised by the entire ordeal. “It’s sad that someone had to lose their life but he was just protecting his family. He is not a violent person but he had to protect his family,” said the relative. The relative added the man was with his wife and 20-year-old son when he was attacked.  “He tried to fight [the attacker] off but what do you do when someone tries to stab you in your own home? He had to protect his wife and son.” The relative said the entire family have been affected by the incident and the man’s wife was receiving counselling. “No one is taking this well. His wife is still very hysterical. It is a difficult time. We are all traumatised.” The family lawyer, Ashraf Mohamed, confirmed that his client was released yesterday after spending a night in custody because the matter was not enrolled by the prosecutor at court. He said the family are “very traumatised”.