An Edendale woman wants justice after she was allegedly physically and verbally assaulted by four police officers on Friday night. Khadija Shangase, who owns an event decorating company, said she, her driver and an assistant were driving down Mbanjwa Road in Caluza just after 8 pm on Friday when they were pulled over by police officers. “They stopped us and very rudely and harshly demanded the driver’s licence. They then demanded that we get out of the car while my assistant was still busy speaking on the phone,” she said. Shangase said the police officers started shouting at her assistant and asked him why he was still on the phone. She said she “calmly” asked the police if they were not allowed to talk on the phone anymore. “A male officer came to me and roughly dragged me out of the car. My right arm is still sore. I asked them why they were so rough and they told me to shut up.” She alleged that three male officers were verbally assaulting her — one said she had a big mouth — when a female police officer joined them. “I thought she would protect me against her male colleagues but instead she put both her hands around my neck and strangled me. “She lowered her hands as if she was about to start searching me then ripped my shirt open. Luckily I had a vest underneath but had I not I [would have been] totally exposed,” said Shangase. She asked the police officer what “was her problem” but the female officer allegedly slapped Shangase. “I wanted to fight back but was scared they might beat me up or even shoot me. I was angry and humiliated and just broke down.” She said the police eventually gave them back the car keys.  When Shangase asked for the female officer’s name she swore at her. Shangase said she wanted something to be done about her encounter to ensure that this does not happen to other innocent citizens. Plessislaer police spokesperson Captain Musa Ntombela said a case of assault was being investigated but no one had been arrested yet. “We encourage everyone who has been assaulted, be it by a police officer or any other member of the public, to come forward and report the matter to us without any fear,” he said.