Mountain biker and super athlete Jeannie Dreyer believes the
sport has grown quickly since she started taking part in it many years ago, but
the fact that it’s expensive to keep up doesn’t make it easy for some
enthusiasts to get their wheels turning. The Pietermaritzburg-based endurance athlete is one of the
most respected MTB personalities in the country because of her achievements in
the sport. On Saturday, Dreyer rode for 340 km in the Ubhejane Xtreme
MTB from Hillcrest to Hluhluwe-Mfolozi Game Reserve, which was to help the
fight against rhino poaching. And that came just a week after she took part in a gruelling
race called The Munga, which is  “a
1 000-kilometre rush from Bloemfontein to Wellington in the middle of the South
African summer”. She is married to the seven-time winner of the Dusi Canoe
Marathon Martin Dreyer, who is also regarded the country’s most successful
ultra-endurance athlete.  Dreyer says mountain biking has become more popular these
days, but a few things are still holding it back from being counted as one of
the top sports in the country. “It’s definitely growing from when I started riding. Like my
husband said, if someone hadn’t developed a tubeless tyre there wouldn’t be so
many people riding, because now if you get a puncture you don’t have to change
the tube because that’s not fun,” said Dreyer. 
“There has been an increase in riding but I would say it is still an
expensive sport; the cost of equipment, the maintenance of your bicycle and the
cost of race entries are quite expensive. “I think at this stage and, with the way the economy is,
there is a bit of a low in terms of participation. But having said that, I
think that people, instead of entering races, are looking for adventure riding
where there is no expensive entry fee,” she said. Dreyer holds the women’s record for the Freedom Challenge, a
2 300-km mountain bike race from Pietermaritzburg to Paarl. Last year, she finished second overall in The Munga, which
she described as the best moment of her career. In this year’s edition last week, she was again comfortably
the first woman home and sixth overall in a quick race where she improved her
time considerably. “It’s not easy to prepare for such distances, there is no
way that you can put in that kind of mileage when you train. I think it just
accumulates over the years of what I have been doing,” she said. “I just love being active, I love the outdoors, and love
where the bicycle can take you. There is a saying that ‘Imagination is your
only limitation when it comes to your bike.’ “The distance you get to cover with the bike is such an
empowering feeling. My husband and I just love to be active.” According to Dreyer, there’s nothing more pleasing than
reaching the finish line, and that’s what keeps her going when things get tough
on the way.