Two Pietermaritzburg police officers made the second biggest heroin bust in KwaZulu-Natal after arresting an 18-year-old man with half a million rands worth of the drug on Wednesday morning.  Pietermaritzburg police station’s Warrant Officer Manny Singh and Constable Shamir Hoosen headed the major bust after receiving information about a young man holding the heroin in Queen Street in the city centre. The two officers had been given a description of the young man holding the drugs and went to a property in Queen Street. The youngster was found in a building, with a packet filled with heroin straws behind the door. The youngster was arrested and will appear in court on Thursday. Pietermaritzburg police spokesperson Sergeant Mthokozisi Ngobese confirmed the bust was the second largest heroin bust in the province. In May this year, heroin to the value of R100 million was confiscated from a vehicle passing through the Golela border post from Mozambique. However, Ngobese said this case was unique as it was a young man who was found with the large amount of heroin. Singh and Hoosen also recovered 2,4 kg of high grade dagga yesterday that had been abandoned by its transporters in Retief Street near the taxi rank yesterday. The team was formed almost three months ago and some of their successes include the recovery of 111 Mandrax pills, over 7 kg of dagga, 160 g of cocaine, 63 pieces of cat (a stimulant drug), 55 pieces of rock and 11 jaws of rock, as well as others. Pietermaritzburg police spokesperson Captain Khosi Khonjelwayo said it was thought the straws were to be distributed around the Pietermaritzburg area, especially in town. “Drugs are one of the contributors to petty crime,” she said. “The team works 24/7 to move drugs off the streets and arrest dealers,” said Khonjelwayo. “They are doing very good work and we know there will be more arrests to come.” uMgungundlovu South Cluster Commander Major-General Phumelele Makoba commended the officers for their hard work and for taking the 16 000 straws of heroin off the city’s streets, in time for the festive season.