Pietermaritzburg - Controversial former deputy director at the Pietermaritzburg prison Russel Ngubo — jailed for the murder of two IFP members in Impendle in 1998 — has been released on parole. Correctional Services regional spokesperson Thulani Mdluli confirmed on Tuesday that Ngubo was released on Monday after being granted parole on October 27. Ngubo’s 12-year stay in prison has been dogged by claims that he was given preferential treatment by his former colleagues.  He was convicted in 2005. On Tuesday Mdluli said: “He qualified to be placed on parole because [he had] reached his minimum detention period of 12 years and six months of his 25 years’ imprisonment. “It is important to mention that parole placement for Ngubo does mean the end of his life sentence.  “He has been transferred to the Community Corrections Office, which will supervise and monitor him as he will be serving the remainder of his sentence in the community.” He said that Ngubo has been released as a high risk, maximum category parolee and would be kept under house arrest.  He added, however, that these conditions could be relaxed to take into account personal circumstances. Mdluli said allegations that Ngubo had attacked a female warder at the Sevontein Correctional Facility were investigated and withdrawn. In 2013 Ngubo was transferred to the medium-security Sevontein Prison from Westville Prison amid allegations that he had been terrorising the warders. “The KwaZulu-Natal Department of Correctional Services wants to confirm that, according to all relevant reports from social workers and psychologists, Ngubo has [undertaken] all necessary rehabilitation programmes.  “In addition to the reports, the families of the victims were consulted for mediation and they were positive,” added Mdluli. A former Stoffelton ANC branch chairperson, Ngubo was jailed in 2005 for 25 years for political murders carried out in the 1990s.  The murders were of IFP member Ernest Nzimande in 1998, and of his IFP colleague Nash Ndlovu. Ngubo and a group of other ANC-supporting prisons officials used state vehicles and firearms in the assassinations of Nzimande and Ndlovu. During Ngubo’s incarceration there have been multiple claims that he was given preferential treatment by his former colleagues and comrades. The Mail & Guardian reported that Ngubo had access to a TV in his cell and was allowed to go to the bank in civilian clothes. In 2015, Ngubo was among 149 prisoners who were recommended for a presidential political pardon, but he did not qualify.