Dolphins coach Grant Morgan is happy that they have made the
RAM SLAM T20 Challenge semi-finals, but feels the side are still to hit their
straps — something they need to do quickly to bring the title home. The Durban franchise registered successive victories in
their last two games of the T20 Challenge round-robin and finished in second
place in the standings, to proceed to semi-finals. They defeated the Knights away on Friday and then put a
weakened Titans side to the sword on Sunday at home, getting a bonus-point win. The second-place finish on the log table saw them book a
date with the Cape Cobras in the semis at Kingsmead on Thursday (6 pm start). In spite of the back-to-back victories, Morgan is concerned
about a few things that he believes are a threat to their plan of ending a
three-year trophy drought. “Obviously, we played well against the weakened Titans side,
but it’s not our fault that they sent that side. But we are still making some
mistakes,” said Morgan. “I don’t feel we have brought our A game yet, but we are
improving in many areas. I mean, we do have the ability and big players who can
supersede others. “We have players who can give good performances and mask the
one or two mistakes. I think if we as a unit can put out our A game, all field
well and all do our roles well, we are going to be dangerous.  “We are very happy that we have managed to cross the line
(in the round robin). We have let ourselves down once or twice, but we’ve also
been very unfortunate in many ways with the weather, the delays at airports and
so on. There are a lot of things that happened, like losing by one run.” Though the coach is calling for quick improvements, he said
there were positives from their performances that they could build on, like the
fighting spirit and ability to win matches at crucial times. “For me, one of the most important things is that the
character of this team is growing. We are not only showing fighting spirit and
the ability to come back in those other forms of the game, but we started
putting right things that we didn’t last year,” said Morgan. “Last year, we had many opportunities in the T20, making
huge scores and couldn’t defend them so on and so forth, but this year we have
done it the other way round.” In the other semifinal, the Ttians will host the Warriors at
SuperSport Park in Centurion tomorrow (also 6 pm). Meanwhile, the KZN Inland campaign in both the Sunfoil
Three-Day Cup and One-Day Challenge is not going well. The Pietermaritzburg
outfit saw their three-day clash against North West at home end in a draw on
Saturday, before they lost to the visitors by five wickets in the one-day on
Sunday.