It's been said that the eyes are the windows to the soul, and that’s exactly what Samukelo Gasa has captured in his extraordinary drawing Qhawe.  Created with an ordinary blue ballpoint pen, the work has been selected for the finals of the BIC® Pen Art Master Talent Search competition. The winner, who is selected by a public vote, will receive an online portfolio valued at R50 000, R10 000 in cash and a BIC® artistry kit. “Qhawe means warrior and I believe you can see this boy’s struggles and his prowess in his eyes,” says Gasa, who was born and raised in Sweetwaters. “I love to draw people because the eyes are the soul. In the eyes I can draw my emotions, making them perfectly match those of the subject.” The 29-year-old revealed his artistic ability at the tender age of five. “I have always been able to use anything as a drawing tool, but I fell in love with graphite pencil. It has always been the most available medium. “I started using pen this year, which I have found very interesting. It gives great depth and awesome rendering. I also sometimes work with oil, acrylics and pastels, but there is still more room for improvement,” he said. Gasa, who attended Siyanda High School, is largely self-taught and believes success comes through hard work and dedication. “I have learned to improve my skills by being consistent,” he said. “I have spent time with other artists, visited galleries and spent time practising. That is where I have learned to address my weak points and figured out how to fix them. “From other artists and non-artist friends I have also received objective critiques that have shown me what I’m doing right and what I can improve on.”  Asked what he planned to do with the prize if he won, Gasa said he was keen to make use of the online port­folio to raise his profile. “It will give people access to a full library of my work and will increase my visibility and online presence. I will also invest a portion of the prize money in books about art ...” • If you would like to see Samukelo Gasa win the BIC® Pen Art Master Talent Search, go to:http://www.hellobic.com and follow the links. Voting closes on December 15.