The ANC in KwaZulu-Natal says it will support Cyril Ramaphosa in spite of its disappointment that nobody from the province is among the party’s top six leaders. Two KZN candidates — Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma for president and Senzo Mchunu for secretary-general — lost out to rivals at the ANC’s 54th national conference. Divisions in the province have been blamed for the misfortunes of the two candidates. Cosatu president Sdumo Dlamini, said: “If you look at the two factions [in KZN], no one can say they were the winners.” Provincial ANC Youth chairperson Kwazi Mshengu said it was disappointing that the province had no representative in the top six and also blamed factionalism. “It speaks to the divisions in KZN. If you look at how things have been happening in ANC, you will recall that in the past it was Eastern Cape that was dominating the space. Then problems started in Eastern Cape, and look where they are now. The influence then moved to KZN. When we started experiencing problems in KZN ... influence moved to Mpumalanga,” he said. Mshengu, who had campaigned for Dlamini-Zuma, said the rival factions in the province needed to find common ground. He added: “From now on there is no NDZ or CR17. There is only one ANC president, which is Cyril Ramaphosa. We respect that.” Moses Mabhida regional secretary Mzi Zuma said the region was not worried about the fact that there was no KZN representative in the top six. “Whether the leader comes from Limpopo or Mpumalanga does not matter to us. It has happened before that there are provinces that do not have any representatives in the top officials. Those provinces never complained,” he said. The region had supported Dlamini-Zuma during the run-up to the conference. Zuma said they would respect the results of the conference. “We pledge our support to the new leadership that was elected. We had our own view, but the conference has decided and we accept that. We believe that the newly elected leadership will prioritise ... unity and lead us to a decisive victory in the 2019 elections,” he said.