Pietermaritzburg police are on the hunt for two cars allegedly involved in various housebreakings on Tuesday using similar techniques to the infamous five-minute gang. This comes amid fears of a spike in housebreakings during the festive season. Reports of a silver VW Polo with a Newcastle registration plate and a charcoal Audi A4 being involved in housebreaking were circulated on several community security groups after incidents in Wartburg, Northdale, Townhill and Hilton on Tuesday. The first housebreaking was reported in Wartburg at around 10.30 am on Tuesday. A Wartburg resident returned from a trip to the store near her home on Tuesday morning and saw her home had been broken into. The thieves fled in a silver VW Polo, taking with them a TV, laptops, a play station and other belongings.  Local security groups posted updates with some members saying they had seen the Polo driving towards Pietermaritzburg. A few hours after the Wartburg burglary, the Polo was reportedly seen during an attempted housebreaking of a Northdale home in Bayat Road. Mountain Rise police spokesperson Captain Gay Ebrahim said the thieves were in the process of breaking in when the house’s alarm went off and scared them away. She said the silver Polo was used in both incidents and that the Newcastle registration plates it was using are fake. Meanwhile, a charcoal Audi A4 was allegedly used in two housebreaking cases on Tuesday. Pietermaritzburg police spokesperson Mthokozisi Ngobese said the suspects had broken into a house in Hilton and tried to steal a TV. However, the TV was too big to fit into the car and was left behind. Ngobese said he could not confirm whether the Audi was used during a break-in at a house in Townhill, however, Pietermaritzburg Red Alert operations manager Avinash Sukai said CCTV footage showed it had been used there. He said footage from a guard hut on Ireland Road showed the Audi enter the area at around 1.30 pm and leave just after the break-in occurred. He said the men used a similar method as the five-minute gang to gain entry into the property and then left after a few minutes. He said a Red Alert guard had been patrolling the area when he spotted the Audi and a man holding a rifle outside the house. Sukai said the guard had seen four men in total. The guard then tried to block the road to trap the thieves but unfortunately the men managed to escape. The owner of the house was not at home at the time of the break-in. Police said yesterday that they had officers all over the city looking for the two vehicles. No arrests have been made.