A cash reward of up to R100 000 is being offered for information leading to the arrest of those responsible for the murder of a popular security guard and mother of three, Nokuthula Olga Zuma. Zuma, who had worked for Fidelity Guards for more than 10 years, was shot 11 times outside her home earlier this month. Friends and family are still devastated by her death and are appealing for any information that could help catch her killers. The Witness was told that a benefactor is offering a reward of up to R100 000 for information that will help police solve the case, but wants to remain anonymous.  Police confirmed they were aware of the reward and hoped it would help bring the murderer to book.  The 42-year-old Edendale mother of three died in a hail of bullets when an unknown gunman opened fire on her in her driveway on Thursday, December 14. Zuma was outside her home, preparing to go to work when an unknown man armed with a gun approached and opened fire on her. She died at the scene. It was the second time this year that Zuma was the target of a shooting. In March she was shot six times, but miraculously survived. That incident also took place outside her home as she was waiting for transport to go to work.  She was hit four times on her right leg and twice on her buttocks. Nothing was stolen from her. At the time of her murder, Zuma’s partner, Nathi Zitha, said witnesses had seen a “suspicious” white Toyota Avanza in the area before Zuma was shot. The driver of the vehicle swung the car around next to where Zuma was standing, and a man carrying a gun got out. The man opened fire on Zuma before fleeing on foot. He was later seen by witnesses getting into the white Avanza, which had parked a few kilometres away. “One of the neighbours said the suspect, who was wearing a balaclava, ran into her yard still carrying the gun.”  Fidelity Security operations manager Denzil Naidoo said in a tribute to Zuma during a speech at their workplace that she was “one of the bravest, strongest, independent and victorious women I knew”. He said Zuma had a soft heart and did not like to see others suffer. “She had the ability to meet a stranger, help them and then make them family,” he said. “Once you entered her life she made sure she took care of you. Whenever someone bought something new, she would be the first to notice, as she was always happy to see people prosper.” Naidoo said Zuma will be remembered and missed for her smile, her humbleness and the way she treated others with respect. “People were blessed when they were with her because she always put other people’s needs first, including mine,” said Naidoo. “She was not just a work colleague or just a friend, I regarded her as my sister. “The phrase ‘one in a million’ is widely used but it perfectly describes Olga [Zuma]. She was a one in a million person.” Plessislaer police spokesperson Captain Musa Ntombela said on Thursday no arrests had been made and the investigation is ongoing. He said the serious and violent crimes unit is dealing with the case and urged the public to come forward with information surrounding the incident. He said police were working round the clock to bring the killer to justice and give Zuma’s family closure.