Pietermaritzburg - Hundreds of tributes from around the country and the world have poured in for 17-year-old former Maritzburg College pupil Miso Khoza, who lost his four-year battle with cancer on Tuesday. The witty, ambitious and brave Miso will be remembered by many for his bright smile, infectious laugh, and his amazing optimism during his struggle to overcome the cancer. Miso was first diagnosed with Ewing’s Sarcoma, which occurs in the bone and appears typically in children and young adults, at the age of 13. In 2014, he had a major operation during which doctors removed two of his ribs the tumour was growing on. Miso went into remission. However, the growth reappeared in August 2015. In February 2016 the tumour was gone and he was back in remission until January this year. In an interview with The Witness in April this year, Miso said the support he and his family had received “has been amazing and I don’t think I would have coped as well as I have if it weren’t for all the support”. On Wednesday, tributes for Miso as well as messages of love and support for his family poured in. Pietermaritzburg local Martin Gee Godfrey posted on the Support Group for Miso Khoza Facebook page: “The sadness is overwhelming. However, Miso fought with everything he had and we can take valuable lessons from him. Your family’s pain will fade, but the good memories will live on forever. We are all richer for knowing him. R.I.P. Miso.” Another Facebook user also posted her condolences on the page. “My heartfelt condolences to Miso’s family and friends,” posted Chantel Zoeker. “May God comfort you all in this difficult time. Miso was not only a hero, but a true inspiration to so many. May you fly high with the angels Miso, pain free.” Another user, Michelle Braithwaite, said she would always remember Miso for his smile. “Very sorry for your loss. I will always remember Miso for his enormous smile and heart. “Miso is a legend and will not easily be forgotten,” she said. A close friend of Miso’s family, Mandy Upton, and her twin sister, Cindy Janse van Rensburg, posted their tribute on Facebook on Wednesday. “Miso there are no words to explain how heartbroken we are. We have walked this journey with you and we have learned so much. Who is going to ruffle our hair and then go into a big bear hug and almost squeeze our lungs out? “You fondly referred to us as your mlungu moms. Your smile would beam. Even on your bad days you never complained or felt sorry for yourself. “Miso you have imprinted a stamp in our hearts that will stay forever. RIP ‘Teddy Bear’.” Miso’s sister, Amanda Khoza, said that heaven has gained an angel. “This is a very difficult time for our family and close friends, but we’d like to take this opportunity to thank you for the enormous support and love,” said Khoza. “You all have really shown us what it really means to have the spirit of ubuntu. We are who we are because of you.”