Pietermaritzburg - Two young women are still shaken by an incident in which a police impersonator tried to coerce them into letting him drive them home from a popular cocktail bar in Pietermaritzburg. The incident happened early on Thursday last week.  Despite being unnerved by his persistence and threats that he would arrest them, the two women — both 19 years old — stood their ground and told him to follow them instead. Nadhira Maharaj, the mother of one of the teenagers, said that at about 2am, while her daughter and her friend waited in the car outside the bar for the latter’s brother, a man approached them. He thumped against the car window, identifying himself as AJ Padayachee, an “undercover policeman”.  He said he was checking for drunk drivers on account of matric balls. Traumatised  Maharaj — who relayed the incident because her daughter was too traumatised to talk to Weekend Witness — said the man demanded the friends alight to take a breathalyser or blood test. “He told them he was going to arrest them and tow the car away.”  Playing the part he took out his cellphone and seemed to make a call. He said he wanted three police vans sent to the bar so that more arrests could be made.  He then sauntered to the front of the car and read out the licence plate.  Maharaj said the friend used her daughter’s cellphone to call her dad who spoke to the “policeman”. Afterwards, he had refused to return the cellphone saying he was keeping it to ensure they don’t “run away”. He insisted they let him take them home, but they said they needed to fetch their sibling from a nightclub and that he could follow them. He tailed them for a short distance in a black Tata before taking a different route. The women had noted the registration number. Maharaj said her son had tracked her daughter’s iPhone to a house in Northdale where it was recovered. Facebook comments Concerned about what might happen to other unsuspecting women, Maharaj posted the incident on Facebook. It received over 400 comments and over 2 109 shares. Prasheen Harrimohan said: “I know this cake he is a known roughe [sic] he hangs around by the stalls and just came out of jail for hijacking ...” Others on Facebook also knew him to be a criminal. Police spokesperson Sergeant Mthokozisi Ngobese was aware of the incident and said it was being investigated.  “I wish to warn the public to be vigilant when people approach them saying they were police officers even if they were driving marked police vehicles.  “A person must produce his or her appointment certificate as proof of being part of the SAPS. If there is no proof, leave the scene.”  He added that the motorist could also ask the “officer” to go to the nearest police station or where they felt comfortable if suspicious.