A 17-year-old youth, Sanda Kubheka, of Edendale was beaten to death in an alleged “vigilante” incident on Friday night. A family member said they were informed he had been accused of stealing a backpack. The Grade 11 pupil who attended Kharina Secondary School died in hospital on Saturday afternoon. His aunt Thabile Ndlovu, told The Witness that Sanda was “beaten to a pulp” by two local men who allegedly accused him of stealing a backpack. “Sanda was drinking with friends at a house not too far from his home when he was accused ... by two men who started assaulting him,” she said. Ndlovu said she was contacted by neighbours telling her that Sanda had been taken to Edendale Hospital by the police.  She said she did not know what could have made his assailants beat him so badly. “His face was swollen and he had multiple head injuries. He didn’t have many injuries on his body, it was just his face and head,” she said. She said Sanda lived at Esigodini with his elderly grandmother and described him as a “good boy” who was not a thief. “He had his faults like any teenage boy but he was not a bad child and definitely not a criminal. His grandmother never had any major problems with him,” she said.  A close friend of Sanda’s, who can’t be named as she is a minor, told The Witness that she and her classmates were “distraught” after hearing about Sanda’s death. “He did not deserve to be killed in that manner, he was a good person and we refuse to believe that he did what they accused him of doing. We want justice to be done for our friend,” she said. The principal at Kharina Secondary School, Shun Moodley, described his death as a tragedy. “Losing a pupil is like losing your own child. We hope those responsible for his death are brought to book. Our heartfelt condolences goes out to his family and friends,” he said. Sanda’s class teacher, Vikeshnee Ramkelawon, said he was a respectful boy. “He was a vibrant lad. He took part in all class activities and was a good athlete.  “We are sad to hear the news of his death. As a teacher it is always heartbreaking to hear such news especially since he died in these circumstances,” said Ramkelawon. Plessislaer police station spokesperson Captain Musa Ntombela confirmed that they were investigating a case of murder but said no one had been arrested as yet. “We plead with community members to never take the law into their own hands. Always report crime to the police and allow the law to take its course,” said Ntombela.