Ex-offenders should never lose hope because although there are challenges, success and a fruitful life after prison are possible. This was the overriding message conveyed at the Msunduzi Municipality&rsquo;s ex-offenders workshop at City Hall on Monday. The event, attended by various government departments, officers from Correctional Services, the office of the mayor and numerous ex-offenders from the district, featured various speakers who grappled with issues facing ex-offenders. An ex-offender who runs his own clothing business, Basil Mthethwa, who said he was once jailed for hijacking, shared his story of how in a twisted turn of events he also became a victim of the same crime when he first started his business. &ldquo;When I first started out, a car that was carrying my stock was hijacked and I lost everything. &ldquo;I had borrowed the money get the material from a loan shark because I knew I would be able to raise it once the business picked up. &ldquo;The loan shark paid me a visit soon after the incident and because I could not give him the money, he took all my sewing machines and other equipment away with him, leading to the collapse of my entire business,&rdquo; said an emotional Mthethwa. Mthwethwa thanked Mazo Ngubane who has volunteered to assist him get his business back after his challenging start and encouraged other ex-offenders to persevere and not return to crime.Ex-offenders who spoke at the event said apart from a criminal record, the stigma attached to ex-offenders posed the biggest challenge for them upon their return to the outside world. &ldquo;In prison we acquire many skills and trades. Some people even graduate in their matric and other courses. When we re-emerge into society we should be able to turn these skills into businesses and successful careers but the stigma attached to ex-offenders makes this very difficult,&rdquo; said Tholakele Mkhize, an ex-offender who runs a sewing and beading company. &ldquo;We urge the Pietermaritzburg community to support ex-offenders and not judge them,&rdquo; said Mkhize.Another ex-offender, Sifiso Moloi, cautioned against the glorification of crime, prison life and gangsterism by ex-offenders. &ldquo;Jail is not something one can be proud of,&rdquo; said Moloi. &ldquo;I do a lot of work with young people and a permeating issue is that prison gangsterism is glorified among school children in local schools. &ldquo;Let us stop killing young minds by encouraging a life of crime amongst our youth,&rdquo; said Moloi. Siphamandla Khumalo from Msunduzi said the workshop&rsquo;s aim was to share experiences and ideas on what can be done to defeat inequality, poverty and unemployment among ex-offenders.