If you are going to watch all the action at the FNB Dusi Canoe Marathon today, just keep calm and follow the detour signs. Storm damage to parts of the M30 Bishopstowe Road from Manning Avenue towards Bishopstowe, which gives access to the Duzi river, has meant the usual route followed by spectators will be disrupted on Thursday [today].The closure will last for two weeks while Msunduzi Municipality undertakes emergency repairs to the road.Motorists travelling to the Dusi have two options. They can either take the Msunduzi Municipality detour, which will be redirected by signage and traffic officials on the road. On this detour traffic from Glenwood, Tamboville and Bishopstowe will be diverted through Tarentaal Road via Starling Road, Eastwood. The Dusi canoe marathon has also laid out an alternative route on their Face&shy;book page, directing travellers to the Dusi via Table Mountain Road. On this route motorists turn left at the Ron Fraser Shell garage towards the D101 gravel road and go uphill towards the P501 road until they reach the M30 tar road and proceed on the M30 to the Bishopstowe hall. Dusi marathon manager Brett Austen Smith said there will be signage to direct traffic from the point of closure, and urged travellers to check the details of their alternative route on the Dusi Canoe Marathon Facebook page. &ldquo;Unfortunately the section of the road closure is impassable &hellip;&rdquo;Mike Amod, the ward councillor in the area, said the closure was necessary because recent storms had caused considerable damage to the roads in the area&shy;. &ldquo;The banks of the road have started eroding and this has caused flooding to houses in the area,&rdquo; said Amod. &ldquo;The municipality decided that it would be best for the safety of motorists to take a proactive approach and launch these emergency repairs as opposed to react after the road collapses,&rdquo; said Amod. In another incident in Merrivale, the storms caused extensive damage to a resident&rsquo;s wall and car. Careen Seaward said the recent storms hit her family more than most. &ldquo;The storm was hectic. Our dogs were distressed and we were all very frustrated. As I went outside to check if the dogs were okay, I saw some water coming in through our front door so I went out to close all the doors and windows. In that moment my car alarm went off and I just switched it off assuming it was just a minor disturbance as my car alarm does sometimes go off randomly. &ldquo;My husband saw a piece of the roof on my car bonnet, but because the storm was so heavy we could not go out and inspect it properly. By the time the storm had passed it was already too dark,&rdquo; said Seaward. The next morning the Seawards found out it was not a minor disturbance that set off the car alarm. &ldquo;Because our neighbours don&rsquo;t have a wall or anything around their yard, water pressure from water streaming down their garden was too much for our wall and this caused it to collapse. &ldquo;It caved in on my car and shattered the bonnet and windows of the car and the car&rsquo;s bumper was also ripped off,&rdquo; said Seaward.Seaward said insurance inspectors said it could take months before the wall is repaired and her fairly new 2013 model Ford Figo might get written off. &ldquo;The damage is pretty hectic. We don&rsquo;t know what we&rsquo;re going to do if we get bigger storms, because now our whole yard is exposed. And we already had some flooding coming inside our kitchen and lounge,&rdquo; said Seaward. The South African Weather Service reported that tropical cyclone Dineo would bring heavy rain, flooding and possibly wind damage to the southern parts of Mozambique, parts of Limpopo and Mpumalanga, and the northern reaches of KZN.South African Weather Service chief forecaster Kevin Rae said strong winds associated with the cyclone would reach approximately 166 km/h on Wednesday. He added that the greatest impact would most likely be felt in South Africa from Friday.