Felix Makhathini&rsquo;s desire to become an actor started with some cash in his pocket and a dream.Now Makhathini (25), who hails from Pietermaritzburg, hopes his role on SABC 1&rsquo;s new series Ingozi will help open up more doors for him. &ldquo;My mother passed away when I was 12, I had only met my father once and my two older brothers were too young to take care of me.&ldquo;I had to make a decision and with R1 000 I had saved from odd jobs I moved to Jo&rsquo;burg. &ldquo;I did not know anyone in Jo&rsquo;burg but when I arrived I managed to find a place to stay. I paid R800 and had to wake up and find a job the next morning. I had to figure out what to do next to keep living. &ldquo;That was the worst time of my life because I have never been that hungry for such a long period. Growing up I wanted to be an IT specialist but because I could not study further I considered my other dream of being on television.&rdquo;It was difficult at first but then he landed roles as an extra in Generations and Selimathunzi while supplementing his income with modelling and presenting gigs. Then came his big break &mdash; a role on a locally produced SABC show.&ldquo;I play the role of Zozo on Ingozi . The series is about the Department of Transport and the road safety awareness campaign they are running in the country.&ldquo;In January last year I lost one of my brothers in a car accident. It was the most horrific [event] I&rsquo;ve ever experienced but I believe that incident has helped mould me into what I am today. I had just been with my brother and then 15 minutes later I was told that he had been involved in a car accident in Thornville.&ldquo;When I got there he was calling everyone by my name and then the car he was stuck in was on fire. All I remember was trying to get him out and people holding me back. I remember lying on the floor screaming because I could hear him screaming. &ldquo;It was the worst. The car was on fire for an hour and a half before the fire fighters arrived. Hearing his screams was the most tragic thing for me. From then I started working even harder because he died and left children. &ldquo;It was up to me to be a father figure to his children and that is why I spend so much time in Pietermaritzburg. I need to be here for them as an uncle and support them. I don&rsquo;t have children of my own, but I cannot be selfish and leave them here.&ldquo;In a way, I feel as though my role in the series Ingozi was given to me by my brother because it was just after he passed. I really relate to the series and it has helped me find closure. This is the biggest role I have ever played and I hope it is not the last but a humble beginning of greater things.&rdquo;Makhathini lived on East Street and attended a boarding school in Otto&rsquo;s Bluff. He completed Grade 8 at Marion High School before completing the rest of his secondary education at Copesville Secondary School. Catch Makhathini on SABC 1&rsquo;s Ingozi every Sunday at 7.30 pm.