A man has admitted he shot dead Allandale shop owner Shaik Ahmed Ali (68) during a robbery last month told a judge that while he was looking for money Ali had started screaming out loudly.The gunman, Thabiso Justice Ndlovu (20), and co-accused Nqobani Timothy Dlamini (21) and Lindokuhle Ndlovu (35) all pleaded guilty before Pietermaritzburg high court Judge Piet Bezuidenhout to Ali&rsquo;s murder and to robbing him and his wife, Farzana, of a gold and silver ring. After finding the three men guilty, the court adjourned the case to Monday for victim impact statements from Ali&rsquo;s family members.Describing what happened on the day of the incident, January 19, Thabiso Ndlovu said a few weeks before that day he told his co-perpetrators that he knew of a way they could get money.&ldquo;At that stage we were all battling to earn a living and were in desperate need to obtain money in order to feed our families. I indicated to them that there was a shop in the Allandale area that was owned by very old people who kept lots of money on the premises. We decided that we would rob this shop,&rdquo; he said.Ndlovu said on the day in question the three of them and another person, named &ldquo;Mbongeni&rdquo;, had gone to Alison Auto Paints Shop. &ldquo;We were armed. I had a firearm in my possession. My companions also armed themselves with weapons.&rdquo;Ndlovu said he entered first and pointed his gun at the occupants in the shop. He had focused his attention on Shaik Ali who was behind the counter, he said.&ldquo;When he saw the firearm he ducked behind the counter. &ldquo;I jumped over the counter and instructed him not to move.&rdquo; Ndlovu said as he began looking for where the money was kept, Ali started &ldquo;screaming out loudly&rdquo;. He went over to Ali but before reaching him he took a gold and silver ring from a woman who was kneeling on the floor, said Ndlovu.&ldquo;When I reached the deceased [Ali] I shot him once on the upper part of his body. My companions and I then fled the scene. I was arrested three weeks later,&rdquo; he said.Ndlovu&rsquo;s two co-accused confirmed his version of what happened.According to the state&rsquo;s indictment Ali died in Grey&rsquo;s Hospital of a gunshot injury that damaged his lungs, liver, bowel, pancreas and bladder.