One person was injured and part of the N3 was covered with spilt paint and some oil in an accident involving three trucks at the Peter Brown offramp below Town Hill on the N3 on Wednesday. Colin Watson of KwaZulu Private Ambulance said the driver of the paint truck sustained minor injuries and was transferred to hospital after being treated on scene. He said the accident was worsened by a third truck that crashed into the two trucks involved in the paint spill. Road Traffic Inspectorate spokesperson Zinhle Mngomezulu said the vehicles were all rigid trucks.&ldquo;The first truck overturned and when the one behind it applied brakes it was rear ended by another one,&rdquo; said Mngomezulu. Gerard Scholtz of Drizit Environmental, which is involved in clean-up operations, said that fortunately the paint spilled was water-based and therefore &ldquo;not very harmful&rdquo;. &ldquo;We managed to contain the spillage. We cleared most of the damage and dug out what we could. &ldquo;In the end only a little bit of the paint went down the river and whatever is left on the road should also clear up soon,&rdquo; said Scholtz.He said what was more worrisome was that another truck on the scene was carrying oil. &ldquo;Oil is more harmful because it floats on water and causes more damage to the environment. &ldquo;With all the streams running everywhere in Pietermaritzburg I think the government is underfunded to deal with all the possible environmental dangers to the city,&rdquo; he said.&ldquo;As a private company we also do the best that we can as cheaply as we can, but there&rsquo;s also only so much that we can do,&rdquo; said Scholtz.He urged motorists to exercise caution when using the roads. In another accident 69 people were injured when a tractor and trailer overturned on the D408 near Pietermaritzburg yesterday morning. ER24 communications manager Werner Vermaak said the circumstances surrounding the accident were unknown, but it was believed that the driver of the tractor lost control over the vehicle while on the way to a local farm. &ldquo;Several of the injured were found lying near the trailer while some were standing around on scene. After being assessed and treated on the scene the occupants were treated and later transported to a nearby hospital for further care,&rdquo; said Vermaak.