Maritzburg United football club handed over six newly renovated classrooms at Willowfontein School this week.The gift was greeted with joy by the staff and pupils of Willowfontein School when the revamped building was officially handed over to the community. School principal Fanyani Mnguni and governing body chairperson Mazwi Ngubane thanked the football club for their contribution. The occasion was also celebrated with song by the school choir. An elated Mnguni showcased some artwork done by the pupils and, as a token of appreciation to Maritzburg United, handed over a framed certificate to the club. &ldquo;We are so happy and at least now the 2017 matriculants will write their exams in dignified classrooms,&rdquo; Mnguni said. After being approached by the school to assist them, Maritzburg United began work on the school two weeks ago when it reopened. Heading the liason team was Sibusiso Ralarala who said he was taken aback by Maritzburg United&rsquo;s prompt response to their plea.&ldquo;We approached them just before the schools closed last year and they (the club) immediately started working on the classrooms when the schools reopened,&rdquo; said Ralarala.School governing body chairperson Mazwi Ngubane said the school teachers&rsquo; dedication to their pupils was commendable. &ldquo;Most of the teachers at this school are not from the community, yet they go out of their way for our children and for that we are thankful,&rdquo; Ngubane pointed out. &ldquo;Maritzburg United is also known to be a very selfless team because as renowned as they are they still play big matches at Harry Gwala stadium instead of taking these games to bigger stadiums like Moses Mabhida and cashing in on more money on tickets,&rdquo; he said.Maritzburg United marketing and communications manager Brian Zuma said the project formed part of the club&rsquo;s corporate social investment projects. It was their way of giving back to the community. He said as a former teacher the school project was close to his heart and the club was honoured they could make a difference. &ldquo;We can&rsquo;t reach all the communities all the time, but we try to make a difference where we can,&rdquo; said Zuma He added that the team would come back with some of the players to paint more classrooms at the school.