A Prestbury dog owner said she is devastated after two of her seven dogs were found poisoned on Sunday morning. Marietje Visser, from Boyd Road, said she awoke to find her Chinese Chow named Cheeky and her Siberian Husky named Bruno vomiting and unable to walk. &ldquo;Cheeky was pouting and it seemed as if he was asking me to please help him,&rdquo; Visser said. She said she rushed both of her pets to the Prince Alfred Street veterinary clinic, where they were examined and it was confirmed that they had been poisoned. &ldquo;The vet said he suspects that a household poison had been used on the dogs. &ldquo;He gave them injections and set up drips for them and would keep the dogs for observation overnight,&rdquo; Visser said.Animal-lover Visser has seven dogs with Bruno and Cheeky forming part of their family for the last year and a half. &ldquo;Cheeky and Bruno are the liveliest of all the dogs. It is likely that they would be the two who would fall victim to something like this,&rdquo; she said. Visser said she could not understand how her two dogs were poisoned and the reason behind it as there were no signs of criminal activity around her home.She said she was grateful that Cheeky and Bruno were alive and taken care of by the vet. &ldquo;The vet&rsquo;s fee will be very expensive and it could go up to R4 000 for each dog. &ldquo;But I am willing to take on the expenses if it means my dogs will be okay,&rdquo; she said. Visser said she regards all the dogs as her children. The spate of dog poisoning has increased significantly over the years. Visser said that she reported the matter to the Prestbury police station and her community crime watch group who will investigate the incident.The Witness reported in December last year that a German Shepard had been poisoned at a house in Clarendon. The owners said they found the dog wandering around their front lawn looking disorientated. After numerous tests, the vet told the owners that the German Shepard was possibly poisoned with insecticide.In December, a farmer from Estcourt found seven of his dogs poisoned after the dogs had eaten meat that had been laced with a toxic substance. The farmer, at the time, said he believed that his dogs had been poisoned by people who tried to gain access to his farm.