It seems the ANC in KZN cannot stomach the defeat of the concept of white monopoly capital at the ANC conference.The ditching of the controversial term pushed by KZN and other pro-Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma ANC structures has been interpreted as a setback to Dlamini-Zuma&rsquo;s presidential ambitions.On Wednesday, after ANC policy guru Joel Netshitenzhe confirmed that the term had been rejected, provincial chairperson Sihle Zikalala took to social media to insist on the concept.&ldquo;In SA monopoly has a racial colour. It is white monopoly capital,&rdquo; he posted.His post was subsequently shared by the ANC KZN Facebook page, and by well known Dlamini-Zuma lobbyists, including ANC Youth League provincial secretary Thanduxolo Sabelo.UKZN-based political analyst Zakhele Ndlovu said the dumping of the term could give the opposing camp a psychological advantage.Ndlovu described the phenomenon of white monopoly capital as &ldquo;immature and ridiculous&rdquo;.&ldquo;This phrase has been associated with the Guptas after allegations that UK-based PR firm Bell Pottinger created the term. The ANC as a party in government cannot alienate whites. With the economic challenges the country is facing, they need investment. In most cases, those investors are white,&rdquo; he said.Ndlovu said the fact that other proposals taken by the Dlamini-Zuma faction in the province did not gain enough support with the delegates in the conference, was also telling.The expropriation of land without compensation and the proposal that the person who loses the party&rsquo;s leadership battle should automatically become its deputy leader, pushed by KZN, both failed at the conference.Political analyst Bheki Mngomezulu said the ANC in the province was not walking the talk in proposing a power-sharing deal.&ldquo;During the provincial conference, there was a proposal that all those who had been defeated in top six position contests should automatically become members of the provincial executive committee. That did not happen.&ldquo;The issue of land and the economy is a sensitive issue. Everyone thought there would be radical talk because the ANC is dominated by blacks, but delegates changed the tone,&rdquo; he said.Mngomezulu said some of these proposals had failed to gain support because they are associated with President Jacob Zuma.&ldquo;The ANC went to the conference a divided party. There are many people who had said before the conference that Zuma must go. Those people were opposing whatever idea came with the Zuma camp,&rdquo; he said.Ndlovu agreed with Mngomezulu, adding that the power-sharing deal would have meant internal democracy was failing in the ANC.&ldquo;It would also have been difficult for these factions to work together. The issue of land was ridiculous; there was no way it was going to get support,&rdquo; he said.Ndlovu said at the moment Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa appeared to be leading the race.&ldquo;Even if Dlamini-Zuma emerges as the winner, ANC branches will struggle to convince people to vote for the party in 2019. She will always be linked to Zuma. She is not just an ex-wife, but the problem is that Zuma actively campaigns for her.&ldquo;Zuma has become a liability to the ANC. Him endorsing her makes even those who like her dislike her because they think she is being controlled by Zuma, who wants her to protect him when he is no longer the president,&rdquo; he said.Ndlovu said Dlamini-Zuma&rsquo;s defeat would be a huge loss to the province that went to the policy conference as the biggest province, which sent the largest delegation.&ldquo;When Mbeki was the president, the Eastern Cape was the biggest ANC provincial structure. We will see a shift in the balance of forces. They will also lose support in KZN. It will leave them vulnerable and opposition parties will use that opportunity,&rdquo; he said.