Keeping her late husband&rsquo;s legacy alive, Shama Petzer (52) has become a well-known face in the Debi Place Market in Northdale for her buzzing fresh fish and seafood stall.Petzer owns Nelson&rsquo;s Fisheries and has had her stall in the well-known market for 26 years. Not only known for her affordable prices and vast knowledge on all things seafood, Petzer&rsquo;s witty humour and booming voice keeps the customers coming back. &ldquo;My husband Nelson was a fisherman and he worked for I&amp;J back then. We started selling prawns at first and now we stock all things seafood and whatever the catch of the day is.&ldquo;Pietermaritzburg is my home and selling here at the market is one of the greatest joys because it holds so much culture. Great-grandparents used to shop here and I am one of those traders that helped build this market.&ldquo;The fish industry is in our blood and has been our livelihood. My son Johnathan is a chef at Ocean Basket in Johannesburg.&rdquo;Petzer said her daughter Mandy is an industrial psychologist in Cape Town. She said running a seafood stall is one of the &ldquo;most hectic&rdquo; jobs as every day starts early with her waiting for the fishermen to arrive with their catch.&ldquo;Once the fish arrive, we have to start preparing it to be sold. That means it must be cleaned, cut and packaged.&ldquo;I work 24/7 and I am quite happy being in the fish business. It is my passion. I love it when the busy days arrive because I love seeing the public support local.&rdquo;Petzer said the winter days are better in the market because the seafood stays fresher for longer, while summer days are stressful for her. &ldquo;I also have to make sure that the fish is kept cool and sometimes I keep the bought fish in my freezers for the customers to continue shopping and collect it on their way out.&ldquo;I am a people&rsquo;s person and I love interacting with all my loving customers. This has been my livelihood and daily bread for years. This is my husband&rsquo;s legacy and I want to continue it.&rdquo;