Scottsville residents have vowed to fight any plans that will see &ldquo;rowdy&rdquo; university students prone to &ldquo;violent&rdquo; protests, setting up base in their area.The residents were against a planned development of accommodation for 508 students. The new development will run between Golf and Carbis Roads. Residents who attended a community meeting on Thursday evening agreed that the development should be on university ground and not in the middle of a &ldquo;special residential area&rdquo;.The issue of the new development, which is out for public comment until July 17, will be considered by a tribunal.Republica Student Living director Wynand Fourie, from the developer&rsquo;s team, was bombarded with a wave of interjections from concerned residents when he addressed a meeting on Thursday night about the development. The residents wanted to know how the new facility would be controlled.&ldquo;There is already huge traffic. Carbis Road becomes a one-way traffic road when the students are partying on the street outside. We can&rsquo;t even get into our driveways. How will that be controlled?&rdquo; one resident asked.Residents said the university needed to take responsibility and provide accommodation for the students it accepts.Chairperson of the Scottsville Residents and Ratepayers Association Dr Peter Green said 50% of the houses in some roads were already occupied by students.&ldquo;The municipality handed a huge tract of land to the university on which to develop. When that was handed over we all thought that would be the area where accommodation is developed. We all expect that further developments should be on the old golf course.&rdquo;Green said the once quiet suburb had become a riot with students parties.&ldquo;Why should we accept the fact that very nice homesteads are now being degraded in order to accommodate students?&rdquo;He said residents were worried that students would be coming in and out of the Lutheran Seminary entrance, which is right next to Ridge Junior primary.&ldquo;There is going to be a huge traffic and pedestrian jam which is already bad in the mornings. With all these pedestrians coming out, it&rsquo;s going to be very difficult to control.Another resident described the anguish they faced during the Fees Must Fall protests.&ldquo;We were held ransom in our own homes. Roads were blocked and we couldn&rsquo;t even get into our driveways ... Bringing in more students will only cause another mess,&rdquo; one resident said.UKZN&rsquo;s SRC secretary-general Xola Mehlomakulu said there are discussions internally to attain more residences for students.&ldquo;We are still within the tender process but plans are being made to obtain more accommodation for students,&rdquo; he said.Scottsville residents needed to accept that the area housed various institutions of higher learning, he said. &ldquo; ... The residents need to understand that this is a predicament and we all need to contribute to solve it.&rdquo;The university could not be reached for comment.