A policeman who has been tackling crime for the past 17 years, Camperdown Detective Sergeant Thulani Shezi is living his childhood dream. From the time detectives visited his primary school in Cato Ridge to investigate a murder, Shezi said he knew that he wanted to become a detective. &ldquo;I saw these smart gentlemen in ties and I asked my teacher who were they because they were not in uniform. &ldquo;I was so impressed with their looks and the way they worked that I immediately knew I wanted to be a detective,&rdquo; he said. Shezi was all smiles last week when his investigation of a brutal murder in 2014 secured one of the biggest convictions in his career to date.Thobelani Charles Zulu received a life sentence for stabbing his ex-girlfriend Tholakela Ntuli more than 20 times at her workplace in Camperdown three years ago.Zulu also received five years&rsquo; imprisonment for housebreaking and malicious injury to property, 15 years&rsquo; for armed robbery and six months&rsquo; for contravening a protection order that another ex-girlfriend had taken out against him. &ldquo;It was quite a horrible case because this man stalked her until he broke into her home in Camperdown one night and stabbed her all over her body. &ldquo;She was in hospital for three days before she died. In those three days I sat by her bedside waiting for any moment that she might become conscious so as to get a short statement from her,&rdquo; Shezi said. He said two days later, an informer contacted him telling him the whereabouts of Zulu, who was soon arrested. Zulu&rsquo;s former girlfriend became a key witness in the case after Shezi tracked her down. He discovered that Zulu had called her the night he murdered Ntuli. &ldquo;He called the other ex-girlfriend and told her what he did. &ldquo;He even told her how he got into the house and he warned this woman that she was next to be killed. &ldquo;The turning point in the case was when the woman revealed in court that she had recorded their conversation and had his confession on record,&rdquo; Shezi said. Now, three years after the date of the murder, Shezi said he was &ldquo;ecstatic&rdquo; that Zulu had received such a long sentence, and was grateful for the invaluable support he had received throughout from his superior officers at the station.