If you are thinking of making any accommodation reservations in Pietermaritzburg ahead of next month&rsquo;s Comrades Marathon weekend, you might be too late.With two weeks remaining before the 92nd edition of the Comrades Marathon up-run from Durban to Pietermaritzburg, some local hotels and B&amp;Bs in the vicinity of the Golden Horse Casino, the new finish venue for the race, are already fully booked. TsogoSun hotel, Yes Please B&amp;B, Ilawu hotel and B&amp;B, 79 On Ridge Bed and Breakfast, confirmed they were fully booked for the Comrades weekend.According to an online booking portal Booking.com, Pietermaritzburg was a top pick among travellers between June 2 and 6, with 72% of their accommodation reservations for the city.Furthermore, the online portal also warned that accommodation prices could rise during the June 2 to 6 weekend. Hotel and B&amp;B operators interviewed indicated that most of the reservations were made early, shortly after the 2016 Comrades Marathon.&ldquo;We see almost the same faces coming back to our facility during the Comrades season. They always make next year&rsquo;s reservations immediately after they check out,&rdquo; said 79 Ridge Bed &amp; Breakfast owner Gys Roos.Reservations co-ordinator at Yes Please B&amp;B Greg Pearson said it was important for guests to book early.&ldquo;I always advise people to book at least two months in advance,&rdquo; he said. Mxolisi Sibeko of Ilawu hotel and B&amp;B said the company&rsquo;s three establishments in Pietermaritzburg CBD, Prestbury and Scottsville, were also fully booked for the marathon weekend.Revenue that the race generates for the Durban and Pietermaritzburg economies is expected to exceed last year&rsquo;s R600 million. Comrades general manager Chris Fisher said he was confident the race would exceed expectations. He said the event has grown in stature over the years, attracting athletes from across the globe.&ldquo;We have an estimated 400 000 people lining up on the Comrades route every year supporting runners and also millions of people globally watching the race on television,&rdquo; he said.Fisher said this year&rsquo;s race would be exhilarating with the new finish venue and improved facilities. The Pietermaritzburg Chamber of Businesses CEO Melanie Veness said the race was crucial for the city&rsquo;s economy. &ldquo;It is a critically important event, drawing masses of people into the city. Local restaurants and accommodation will benefit from it, thereby contributing to economic growth,&rdquo; Veness said.