Pietermaritzburg - One of five men who looted an electronics store at Liberty Midlands Mall on Saturday night was later shot dead in a dramatic shootout between police and the burglars.In the showdown between the police and the burglars near Umlazi, one burglar was arrested as three others fled on foot. On Saturday night, five men entered the Liberty Midlands Mall car park in a white VW Polo. As shoppers and diners at the mall were blissfully unaware of the drama, the burglars smashed their way into Incredible Connection&rsquo;s shop and started piling loot into bags.According to a well-placed source, the burglars forced their way into the shop at around 8.15 pm by breaking the glass on the front door. They then stole an undisclosed amount of electronics before fleeing the same way they got in. The weekend manager at the mall, Xolani Mchunu, said he was unable to comment on the incident, but the centre released a statement confirming that the incident took place. According the statement, the centre&rsquo;s security guards contacted the police as soon as they realised that the burglary had taken place. The statement added that nobody was injured during the incident. Pietermaritzburg South cluster police spokesperson Sergeant Mthokozisi Ngobese said the white VW Polo was later spotted on the N3 south bound at around 8.25 pm. &ldquo;The SAPS flying squad was called to pursue the vehicle,&rdquo; Ngobese said. The police followed the vehicle all the way to Umlazi and caught up to the burglars on Umlazi Road. Ngobese said that when the men were confronted, they started shooting at the police. The police responded by firing back. The intense shootout saw one of the gang shot dead and another arrested.Three of the robbers managed to get away on foot. Ngobese confirmed that no police officers were injured during the fierce exchange of bullets.Ngobese said all the items that were stolen from Incredible Connection were recovered in the white VW Polo the burglars drove. He said the police will continue looking for the suspects who got away.Ngobese said police are investigating a case of business burglary as well as attempted murder since the robbers shot at the police. He said an inquest case was also opened in respect of the suspect who died.