The Department of Education will launch an intense investigation after another case of sexual abuse at a city school came to light last week.It is the same school that made headlines recently when their school counsellor was alleged to have sexually abused pupils there.The department&rsquo;s spokesperson Muzi Mahlambi said the department only learnt about the allegations of the sexual abuse at the school from The Witness &nbsp;on Monday. &ldquo;In the previous incident, the department also only found out about the allegations because parents opened cases with the police. The school did not voluntarily report it to the department,&rdquo; Mahlambi said. He said should the allegations be found to be true, and should the department find that the school withheld reporting the incident, &ldquo;they [the school] will be held accountable and dealt with accordingly&rdquo;.Parents were called in to an emergency meeting at the school on Friday evening and were told by a senior teacher that a female pupil had raised a complaint about being &ldquo;touched inappropriately&rdquo; by one of the school&rsquo;s cleaning staff members.It was alleged that the pupil reported that she was waiting for her lift after school when she decided to go to the toilet.She reported that when she was in the toilet the male cleaner came in and &ldquo;touched her inappropriately&rdquo;. The cleaner allegedly gave the pupil R100 and instructed her not to tell anyone about the incident.uMgungundlovu South police cluster spokesperson Sergeant Mthokozisi Ngobese confirmed that a case of sexual assault was being investigated. He said that no arrests have been made as yet. Fuming parents told The Witness on Monday that they could not believe another case of sexual assault has emerged at the school. &ldquo;We are only just finding our feet since the last incident in October and now this. There is no need for security guards to protect our children from outsiders. &ldquo;The monsters are within the school,&rdquo; said one tearful parent. She said she &ldquo;sat in absolute silence and disbelief&rdquo; at Friday&rsquo;s meeting when a senior teacher at the school revealed the allegations of sexual abuse. &ldquo;How much more can we take? How much more can our children be put through? I have had to have conversations with my innocent son that I never thought I would,&rdquo; said the parent. Another parent said it was appalling that the school had not learnt its lesson from the last incident. &ldquo;Their attitude is that if it is not my child then it is not my problem. This is October all over again,&rdquo; said the parent. He said that the pupils have now been told by the school that they should go to the toilets in pairs. The school principal said he could not comment on the matter and the chairperson of the school governing body could not be reached for their input.