Well-known Imbali mechanic Sibonelo &ldquo;Waga&rdquo; Mlambo (22) has made a name for himself as the &ldquo;go-to mechanic&rdquo; with dreams of opening his own professional workshop soon.Despite having only reached Grade 7 at school, Mlambo fixes people&rsquo;s cars and also teaches youngsters to help keep them off the streets.&ldquo;School was not for me. I tried really hard, but I found it difficult and confusing so at the age of 12 I just stopped going to school.&ldquo;Instead of sitting at home and doing nothing I decide to hang out at a local mechanic&rsquo;s workshop and that&rsquo;s where I found my passion for fixing cars. At the age of 16 I already had people coming to my home, waking me up, and asking me to fix their cars. I don&rsquo;t see fixing cars as a job, for me it is more of a fun hobby I get paid to do.&ldquo;I find fixing cars really easy and I enjoy it. People cannot all be the same, some are good with books, I am good with my hands. I love cars and have a deep understanding of them.&ldquo;Although I am still working from my mom&rsquo;s yard, I have managed to earn a decent living and made a name for myself as a reliable and skilled mechanic. I have had customers with very fancy cars coming to me for help and some come from as far as Durban and surrounding areas.&ldquo;I also teach young boys from my community about fixing cars. It helps them have a skill they can use to make an income and it definitely keeps them off the streets. I may have not finished school, but I am making something out of my life. I encourage other youngsters who also left school for whatever reason to be willing to learn other skills they can use to make a living instead of resorting to crime.&ldquo;My plan is to retain my clients, build as many contacts as possible and save as much money as I can to open my own professional workshop.&ldquo;I also have plans to study further, but for now I am more focused on making a sustainable living to support my family,&rdquo; said Mlambo.