Hundreds of ANC membership cards in Richmond have been flagged as being fraudulent. A verification process by FNB’s Hayfields branch has now opened up a can of worms. Questions are being asked about how these cards were manufactured from forms using a fake FNB stamp as proof of payment in the lead up to branch general meetings (BGM) at which councillor candidates are elected. The same membership cards could still be used to influence the make-up of the delegation to the national conference. The Witness heard on Monday that both the regional and provincial leadership have allegedly not acted on the matter despite being alerted to it in February. Last year the ANC ran one of the most tumultuous candidate nomination processes yet. It was marred by the killings of its activists and candidates, and there were also many disputes that arose from the process. According to a letter from FNB verifying the Hayfields branch code, which The Witness has a copy of, the branch code for Hayfields Mall is different to the one appearing on the forms. The bank, however, declined to comment on the verification letter, saying “due to client confidentiality, FNB is unable to provide any information on the matter. All matters involving our clients are addressed directly with the client.” ANC sources said a fake FNB stamp could cost as much as R500 000 to make. “With it [a fake stamp] you easily win any ANC conference. You can easily influence the outcomes of any lists conference either to nominate local government representatives, provincial legislature representatives or national assembly representatives,” said a source. An ANC insider said in ward one alone in Richmond, over 120 membership letters had been declared fraudulent. In ward two, over 220 memberships had been flagged as fake. The source said the fraudulent membership cards had been used to influence the outcomes of the branch general meetings which selected councillor candidates and said they would have come in handy for the “captures” during the upcoming ANC conferences. The ANC in the region was supposed to have held its regional conference before the December national conference. “Membership is being dished out at ANC meetings to people who have not applied for it just to influence the outcomes of BGMs. Some people are going around with fake FNB stamps.” ANC regional leadership and the provincial leadership have been accused of dragging their feet in investigating the matter. ANC structures ‘never responded’ to calls for probe The Witness was
furnished with letters directed to both regional secretary Mzi Zuma and
provincial secretary Super Zuma, urging both the structures to investigate the
matter. The letters are dated February 2017, and
disgruntled branch members confirmed they had not heard from either of the two
structures since writing the letters. The letters finger Richmond Municipality speaker,
ward one councillor and former branch chairperson Samora Ndlovu and his
bodyguard, saying they are the ones who submitted the fake membership forms. This resulted in the branch suspending Ndlovu and a
staff member. “The reason people like him [Ndlovu] get protection
from above, is because they make promises to bring numbers to conferences. “Many people who are councillors made promises that
if they are elected as councillors, they will bring numbers [of people] to the
upcoming conferences.” On Monday Ndlovu declined to comment on the
allegations levelled against him, directing all queries to the regional
leadership. ANC regional spokesperson Spha Khumalo declined to
comment on the matter, saying only regional secretary Mzi Zuma could comment. Zuma’s phone rang unanswered on Monday. Attempts to get comment from both the provincial
spokesperson, Mdumiseni Ntuli, and provincial secretary Super Zuma were also
unsuccessful. 