Just two months ago coach Fadlu Davids’ Maritzburg United coasted to the top section of the Absa Premiership standings, thanks to their opening four games without loss, but his coaching position now appears to be in danger. The pressure has increased immensely at the Midlands club in the wake of extremely disappointing results lately, which have seen Davids’ goal-shy team drop to 11th place on the log table and fall out of the Telkom Knockout at the first hurdle at the weekend. They have gone seven matches without a win across all competitions — four losses and three draws. Moreover, they have not scored a single goal off their own boots during this bad patch, but saw an own goal by an opponent in a league draw. On Monday, Maritzburg’s managing director and chairperson Farook Kadodia, tried to put on a brave face while officially pledging support for the embattled coach, but he also stressed that they were deeply worried about the situation and wished to see better results sooner rather than later. Whether Davids will see out his full term remains to be seen. His team’s short-lived participation in the Telkom Knockout again highlighted the “final-third issues” and individual mistakes that continue to spoil their make-up this season. They were knocked out of the Telkom Knockout by basement club Platinum Stars in front of their home fans on Friday night.  “At the moment, obviously it is a concern that we haven’t scored goals or won in those matches. We’ve just been through a lot this year. “But the team has to turn the corner now. We were recently knocked out the Cup, which basically was the easiest of matches to get a win from. “But everything is behind us now; no pressure with the Telkom Cup as such.  “We just need to get back to winning ways now and come out of this situation as soon as possible. “In terms of the bigger picture, we’ve played seven games in the league, with two wins, three draws and two losses. That’s not bad at all, but the reality is that we cannot allow ourselves to sit where we are.  “We need wins.  “We have two games in hand, but those mean nothing if we don’t get points from them,” Kadodia said. So far this season, United have collected nine points out of a possible 21 in the seven games played ahead of their trip to Bloemfontein Celtic this evening. Kadodia added: “The coach must get his house in order. We have the right players, but the reality is we need to create much more chances.  “I know the coach has said that he’s had 56 shots on target, or whatever it is, but the reality is that those shots should have been turned into goals to kill matches.’’ After tonight’s task against Celtic in the Absa Premiership, United will have a break before travelling to fellow stragglers Polokwane City. Getting the results from these two encounters could be crucial in determining Davids’ future at the club. But Kadodia said the coach had not been given an ultimatum in terms of the need for better results. “I think at this stage, I basically will start demanding results, no doubt about it. Getting results is really crucial. We need to get back to the football of winning, which I think the coach is trying to implement, anyway.” Tuesday night’s kickoff at Dr Molemela Stadium in Bloemfontein is at 7.30 pm.   