Maritzburg United diehards will hope that the excitement of
knockout football will help the team find their scoring boots again. The Midlands outfit go into Friday’s Telkom Knockout last-16
clash with Platinum Stars at Harry Gwala Stadium without having found the net
in their last six games in all competitions. This has seen them register three draws and three losses
across Absa Premiership and MTN8 assignments since last month, with one of the
stalemates featuring an own goal by the opposition. Maritzburg are also up against their former coach Roger de
Sa, who is trying to rebuild Platinum Stars after a torrid start to the season. Maritzburg coach Fadlu Davids says his team will be fighting
tooth and nail to bag a win and turn their fortunes around. Speaking to The Witness on Thursday, Davids said: “The mood
is upbeat ahead of the game. I think the guys are really excited after the disappointment
of not making the final of the MTN8 when we were so close. The players really
want to make it right. This is a perfect opportunity.  “We have to win and get to the final. The players are
showing hunger, a desire to do it. We owe it to the fans. We’re definitely
going to be making some changes in the squad to be able to get the results
against Platinum Stars.”  Stars had a really bad start to the campaign and remain in
search of their first win to date, but in De Sa’s first two games in charge, they
have managed two 1-1 stalemates against Orlando Pirates and a fast improving
Free State Stars, which showed signs of improvement.  The cautious 53-year-old tactician will be reminding his
charges that Rome was not built in a day but will at the same time expect
improvement. “If we are in the cup, we want to go all the way. You never
enter the cup to say let’s just go to the semis or the quarters. In a cup
competition, you want to go all the way and win the final. That’s what we are
here for,” said De Sa.   De Sa is aware of the threat posed by his former employers. “Maritzburg are an exciting young team with a lot of good
players that have made the mark this year. They are an exciting team to watch.
They like to play a certain system but they are adaptable. They can change
while the game is on. They also have the support. They are probably the best
supported side in the league as far as home matches are concerned.”  Davids echoed De Sa’s sentiments as far as fans are
concerned, urging their faithfuls to turn up in numbers. “We need them behind us in this cup. We disappointed them
the last time and now we have to try and change that,’’ Davids concluded. Bandile Shandu and Yazid Atouba are both doubtful for the
clash with injuries picked up last time out, while Liam Youlley is in line to
make his debut after recovering from a knee injury. In head-to-head stats, United and Stars have met in 23
matches across all competitions since the 2005/6 campaign. Dikwena have claimed 11 wins compared to the six for United,
while eight matches have been drawn. Stars also hold the advantage in matches played at United. In 11 matches, they have won five to United’s three, with
three games drawn. They have outscored their opponents 30-21 overall. That being said, Stars have not won any of the last seven
meetings between the two sides. In that time there have been three United wins
and four draws.  Stars’ last success came in a league clash in March 2014. When the teams met earlier this season, goals from Deolin
Mekoa and Lebohang Maboe gave the PMB club a vital 2-0 away win. Both coaches have never won the competition, but De Sa has
previously reached the final twice with Bidvest Wits and then the Buccaneers in
2011 and 2013 respectively. Kickoff is at 8 pm.   TELKOM KNOCKOUT FIXTURES: Friday Maritzburg Utd v Platinum Stars — 8 pm Saturday Polokwane City v Ajax CT — 3.30 pm Golden Arrows v Orlando Pirates — 3.30pm Bloem Celtic v SuperSport Utd — 6 pm Kaizer Chiefs v AmaZulu — 8.15 pm Bidvest Wits v FS Stars — 8.15 pm Sunday Baroka v CT City — 3.30 pm Chippa Utd v Sundowns — 3.30 pm