Durban - A Durban DJ has been left traumatised after his brand new BMW M3 was washed away near the Durban Harbour during Tuesday’s torrential storm that hit the city and its surrounding areas.  The man, who asked not to be named, said that he was due to start a new job on Tuesday and decided to take his girlfriend for a celebratory breakfast near the Durban harbour.  “We were having breakfast and talking when I noticed my car seemed to be moving. I initially thought I had left my handbrake down,” he said.  He said that as he ran toward his vehicle he noticed the car “seemed to be sinking” into sand as the tyres and fenders were covered with mud.  “I was not able to get to the car because the stormy conditions were so bad and I saw that my girlfriend fell over and seemed to be injured so I ran to her,” he said. He and his girlfriend took cover as the storm was turning “violent”. “When I looked back, within minutes I saw my BMW being covered in water, sand and debris. I only saw the roof of my car and next minute it vanished,” he said. 'Traumatised' Talking to The Witness on Tuesday, the Durban man said he was “traumatised and disappointed” as he purchased the BMW M3 just over two months ago.  “I just watched my car being washed away. I felt so helpless because I could not do anything. There were trees, branches and waves and waves of water gushing everywhere,” he said.  He added that his laptop was still in the car when it was washed away and although he suffered no injuries during the incident, his girlfriend hurt her arm when she fell.  The man said that his vehicle has not yet been recovered. The unprecedented flooding also caused significant damage to Toyota South Africa’s plant in Prospecton.  Andrew Kirby, president and CEO of Toyota South Motors, said buildings, equipment as well as motor vehicles on the line were damaged.  Kirby said there were no injuries on Tuesday, but the plant remained closed until today, when managers will assess the situation and decide if normal manufacturing can resume. 