A 30-year-old man on Tuesday admitted that he bludgeoned a KwaZulu-Natal businesswoman with a hammer, stabbed her in the thigh with a knife and then dragged her to a bathroom and raped her. The attack on the 41-year-old woman happened at her workplace near Pietermaritzburg on March 31. Her identity may not be disclosed. Philani Vumijojo pleaded guilty in the regional court here on Tuesday. He confirmed that his legal aid lawyer, Amanda Hulley, had explained to him prior to him deciding to plead guilty, that he faces a possible sentence of life imprisonment in connection with the incident. This is because the victim suffered grievous bodily injuries in the course of being raped. In a written statement to court, which he confirmed to be true, Vumijojo said that on the morning in question he went to the woman’s office to “beg” her for a job as she had retrenched him in December 2016. “I found her in the office and I tried to speak to her. She took out a hammer from the drawer and tried to attack me. She missed and I managed to grab her hand and dispossess her of the hammer. “I was angry that she tried to attack me. I proceeded to hit her repeatedly on the head and her body with the hammer. Whilst assaulting her with the hammer my knife fell out of my pocket. I picked it up and stabbed the complainant once on her thigh,” he said. Vumijojo said the woman fell down and he then pulled her to the bathroom and raped her. “I dragged her back to the office and locked the office door,” he said. He said he fled from the area but whilst walking on the road he was apprehended by security officers who took him to the police station where he was placed under arrest and charged. Vumijojo admitted that he has no defence for his actions and that he had assaulted the victim with the intention of causing her grievous bodily harm by hitting her all over her body and stabbing her during the attack. A medical report handed to court detailed the multiple injuries and bruises the woman suffered, including head injuries and two stab wounds on her right thigh. The doctor who examined the woman noted that her clothing was “spattered in blood, torn” and described her as being of slight build and medium height. She concluded that the injuries were in keeping with the victim having been assaulted with a hammer on her head and chest, and stabbed with a knife on her right leg. She also found “defensive wounds” on the victim’s hands. The medical findings were also consistent with the victim having been raped. Magistrate L. Rusi said she was satisfied that Vumijojo is guilty as charged. The case was postponed until November 23 to enable to state to obtain a victim impact statement from the woman, as well as a pre-sentencing report from a probation officer who will inquire into Vumijojo’s personal circumstances.