The Dolphins will be hoping their opening batsman, Sarel
Erwee, continues his resilience with the bat as they continue the fight to
avoid their first defeat of the season in the Sunfoil 4-Day Series. The Dolphins are on the last day of their match against the
Titans at the City Oval in Pietermaritzburg on Thursday. The hosts chased a heavy overnight score of 500 for six that
was declared by the visitors on day two. The Dolphins resumed day three with the bat on 47/1 on
Wednesday but only managed 216 all out in their unsuccessful first innings of
the clash. They were forced to follow on as they were still trailing by
284 runs, and the Grant Morgan-coached side reached a score of 160 for two in
the second innings before the end of Wednesday. They lost Senuram Muthusamy, who had scored 11 runs, and
Vaughn van Jaarsveld, who contributed 39 runs. They were both sent back to the stands by Tabraiz Shamsi,
who had a good day with the ball on day three. Erwee will take an unbeaten 88 not out on Thursday alongside Cody
Chetty, who is on 15. Despite Erwee’s good fight with the bat, the men from Durban
are still trailing the visitors by 124 runs. They face a serious challenge from the Titans bowlers such
as Shamsi, Alfred Mothoa, Shaun von Berg and Malusi Siboto, who were all on
song on Wednesday. Shamsi finished on Wednesday with five wickets between two
innings to ensure his side remain in control heading to the last day. • Meanwhile, Pieter Malan led a superb batting performance
by the Cape Cobras as they gave themselves a chance of victory after three days
of their Sunfoil Series clash against the Warriors at Newlands in Cape Town on
Wednesday. The right-hander recorded his 25th career century and fell
just shy of a double ton after amassing 195 (277 balls, 26 fours, 2 sixes) to
help bolster the hosts to 530 for eight declared — a lead of 183. Dane Piedt (1/9) then claimed the wicket of Gionne Koopman
(7) in the six overs that were bowled before the close, to leave the Warriors
on 12 for one — still 171 behind with a day to play. Considering most of the first day was lost due to wet
weather, it was a fine display from the home side and gave them every chance of
forcing victory, with Malan not the only man to shine. Aviwe Mgijima, Justin Ontong and Piedt all hit
half-centuries, with the skipper plundering an unbeaten 52 from only 38 balls
(2 fours, 4 sixes) to help take the game swiftly forward. Mgijima fell 10 short of a century after hitting 90 (155
balls, 11 fours) with Ontong making 69 (117 balls, 6 fours, 1 six). The best of the bowlers for the Warriors was Basheer Walters
with three for 112. • At Senwes Park in Potchefstroom on Wednesday, career-best
figures from Bjorn Fortuin and a return to form by Stephen Cook ensured that
the Highveld Lions were well on top after three days of their Sunfoil Series
encounter against the Knights. Slow left-armer Fortuin claimed six for 78, only his second
five-for, as the defending champions were bowled out for 261 — a deficit of
203. That was then stretched to 402 after the home side made 198
for two declared thanks to Proteas opener Cook hitting 105 (144 balls, 13
fours) — his 42nd career century. And the Knights then found themselves in trouble by the
close, which they reached on 35 for one as Hardus Viljoen (1/14) had claimed
the wicket of Grant Mokoena (12). Earlier it was Fortuin who starred after he surpassed his
previous best of five for 33 playing for North West against Griquas in
three-day cricket. Viljoen chipped in with two for 58 and Wiaan Lubbe two for
51 as the Knights struggled. Only Rudi Second (50 off 110 balls, 7 fours)
managed a substantial contribution on day three. The Lions then batted for 45 overs with Cook leading the way
with his first ton of the season, while Rassie van der Dussen made a brisk 67
not out (81 balls, 7 fours), allowing for the quick declaration. The Knights were then left needing an unlikely 367 for
victory with nine wickets standing.