Msunduzi Speaker and ANC regional executive committee member Jabu Ngubo is likely to become the first casualty as the ANC rift in the region widens. Highly-placed ANC sources have confirmed that Ngubo, a ward one councillor, is facing the chop as speaker after a fallout with the regional ANC leadership. The sources said Ngubo had already been told by the ANC leadership that her services were no longer required, but had resisted attempts to axe her. Sources said ANC provincial secretary Super Zuma had already held a meeting with the ANC councillors at the city hall where he gave instructions that they should remove Ngubo with a vote of no confidence. The directive, however, received some resistance from some quarters of the divided ANC caucus, an insider said. It is believed ANC presidential hopeful Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma supporters want Ngubo removed as Msunduzi speaker because she is no longer with the faction. “She is definitely no longer with the Dlamini-Zuma camp. At the moment it is not clear which camp she is with but it looks like she wants to join the Zweli Mkhize campaign.” The insider said Ngubo was among the ANC councillors who want acting municipal manager Sizwe Hadebe out. Hadebe faces revolt from ANC councillors who are opposed to him being given a permanent role, which would see him overseeing the city’s R4,9 billion budget. The City is in a process of finding a permanent City manager for the first time since Mxolisi Nkosi was suspended in 2015. “She is really angry at the ANC regional leaders about Hadebe’s long stay, but she cannot do anything. If it was up to her, Hadebe would have been long gone by now, but her hands are tied. Many ANC councillors do not want him, but the region does want him.” There are also rumours that Ngubo has fallen out with Deputy Mayor Thobani Zuma over the awarding of certain tenders. Ngubo seems to have also fallen out of favour with some of her fellow councillors. Apparently she seldom gets even a nod from former buddies when they meet at meetings. In full council meetings councillors sometimes undermine her by talking over her while she tries to address the gathering. ANC provincial secretary Super Zuma denied that there were attempts to remove Ngubo. “That has never been discussed and it’s nonsense. It is worrying that someone would peddle such lies,” he said. Zuma said he has seen a message circulating on social media detailing his recent visit at the city hall, but said all its contents were untrue. He said he had come to city hall to meet with Inkosi Simphiwe Zuma, from Impendle. “I did not meet with the Msunduzi speaker or anyone because I had another commitment. So it is clear that whoever is peddling these lies is trying to create confusion and instability in the municipality,” he said. Ngubo referred all queries to ANC regional leadership, saying deployment issues were the prerogative of the regional leadership. Attempts to get comment from regional secretary Mzi Zuma were unsuccessful.