When 16-year-old Alicia von Locherenberg recorded a video of herself ranting in Zulu and posted it online she did not think it would make her an overnight social media sensation. More than her humorous rant, it was Alicia’s flawless Zulu that gained her popularity. The video, which she has since shared on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, has had more than a 100 000 views. Speaking to The Witness, the youngster said she speaks Zulu 80% of the time. “I grew up around isiZulu speaking people and it was easy for me to grasp it. I was very intrigued by the language and wanted to learn it.” In primary school, Alicia said she decided to take Zulu as an additional subject so she could learn to write it. “I always have a lot to say in isiZulu. I don’t think the content for my videos would be as funny if I spoke in English.” Alicia, a Grade 10 pupil at Linpark High School, said she started recording herself when she was in Grade 8. “I was shocked when the video went viral. It didn’t go viral immediately — in the first week it had a few views and I just left it.” A few weeks later the video spread on social media like wildfire and she started trending. “I woke up one morning and it was all over social media. It was shared by so many people, including local celebrities, and I was amazed.” In the first video that went viral Alicia is talking about how she handles dis­agreements with her peers. She said she tries to make sure that her content highlights challenges faced by teenagers. “It’s my way of also showing that beside the colour of our skin we go through the same challenges. My videos tackle those issues in a humorous way. I try to make videos that are accurate.” She said although she enjoyed the popularity, her parents were still trying to adjust to it. “My parents know that the video has gone viral but I don’t think they understand what it means. They can’t get used to the reaction people give me when we are at malls.” Since her first video Alicia has recorded five more videos, which have also had a fair number of views. “When the video went viral on social media it motivated me to make more videos because I could see that I managed to capture an audience.”