Where is the filth coming from? Motorists driving along the N3 between Chota Motala Road and the Liberty Midlands Mall want to know who is responsible for the mountains of litter strewn down the banks of a river flowing there. The filth can be seen behind the depot of a local bus company, SMT buses.  Two locals, Debby Lucke and Tim Nixon, wrote to Witness Warriors asking for answers. Lucke said the “disgusting sight” has every motorist that passes on the N3 looking at the mess in disbelief. “What a wonderful way to promote this capital city of the province! It is an utter disgrace and yet another example of how filthy this once picturesque and charming city has become,” she said.  Lucke said that just a few metres away down the river bank, a fence had been erected, but there was “not a speck litter” there.  She said she wondered whether the bus company had any ideas as to how all that litter came to be thrown down the bank and into the river.  “Not only is it unsightly and unhygienic, I should think a lot is in the water below as well and travelling through our city river system,” Lucke said.  Passionate about his city, Nixon said that he had lived around Pietermaritzburg all his life and is now “ashamed” because of the filth that is everywhere.  “Those using the N3 have an advertisement for the City of Choice which is a picture of the filth,” he said. Witness Warriors attempted to get hold of a senior manager at SMT Transport but was on the receiving end of a rather abrupt call.  When we called, a man on the other line said that no managers were available to speak to the media and that he had “no idea” where the dirt was coming from.  He refused to tell us his name. When we called again a day later, the man (presumably the same person) said that he did not know what we were talking about and that he was “tired” of telling Witness Warriors “the same thing”. Msunduzi Municipality also did not respond to questions but Witness Warriors will continue to strive for an explanation regarding the matter. 