The father of the four children who miraculously walked away unscathed after a truck crash-landed on their house last week, said a “miracle from God” saved his children. Joseph Nxumalo and his family spent the weekend in an RDP house organised by his ward councillor, and now they are searching for a new home. Copesville ward councillor Spha Madlala said a close relative of the Nxumalo family agreed to let them stay in the RDP house in Masons until she moved in this week. Nxumalo said all the children attended school on Monday because with examinations approaching, “they cannot afford to miss out on school”. “The children have complained about body aches. I guess they were in shock at the time and didn’t realise they were in pain. But other than a few aches and some bruises they are perfectly okay and I cannot believe how God saved them,” he said. “When I found out what happened, I was already at the taxi rank.” He said one of his colleagues called him and told him to rush home. “When all the other drivers and conductors heard what happened, they jumped into one kombi and came with me to my house to help,” he said. Nxumalo said when he arrived at the place his three-bedroom home once stood, he immediately ran around in search of his children. “I thought they were gone and that people were lying to me telling me they were okay because they wanted to keep me calm. I just wanted to see my children and when I finally saw them I felt relieved,” he said. “I cannot believe my children survived.” The children — aged six, 11, 13 and 16 years old — were taken to Northdale Hospital for a check-up. They were found to be suffering from shock and needed a few bruises to be bandaged. Nxumalo thanked his neighbours, colleagues and Madlala for helping his family. Although hours later many friends and family could be seen trying to salvage what they could from the crushed house, Nxumalo said only two mattresses were still intact. “Everything was crushed. The children’s school books and all that was gone,” he said. In the meantime, the owners of the North West Logistics trucking company deposited some money into Nxumalo’s account on Saturday as interim compensation to assist them in the next few days while their insurance assessors tallied the damages. “They gave me the money and I used that to sort the children out for school. They have exams coming up so they needed things. Now we are looking for alternative accommodation until the truck company pays us or rebuilds our home,” he said.