Four teenagers have died after the car they were travelling in veered off the road and into a tree before rolling for about a 100 metres. Three of the boys died at the scene with the fourth dying on his way to hospital. The crash occurred on the R74 just outside Greytown on Saturday afternoon.  The boys, Siyanda Msane (12), Nhlanhla Msane (17), Ngcebo Mthembu (17) and Lindo Ximba (19) had gone to fetch Siyanda’s grandfather’s car and were on their way home when the crash occurred. It has been alleged that the teens had been racing another car, but police said they were unable to confirm this. It is unclear how fast the car was going at the time of the crash, however, a source said it appeared they had been driving at a high speed, in excess of the 60 km/h speed limit. Skid marks from the silver Toyota Corolla the teens had been driving could be seen, showing where the car left the road and smashed into an acacia tree. The vehicle rolled several times before coming to a halt over 100 metres away, leaving a trail of car parts, such as the bumper, rims, and one of the doors, in its wake. Speaking to The Witness, Siyanda’s father and brother to 17-year-old Nhlanhla who also died in the crash, Bongani Msane, said the family were not doing well. He said Nhlanhla had been a Grade 11 pupil at Greytown Secondary while his son was a Grade 7 pupil at Eshane Primary School in Greytown. He said Ximba and Mthembu had been his brother and son’s friends. “I learnt of the accident when police arrived at home yesterday [on Saturday] evening,” said Msane. Msane said his older brother had taken the car and drove to town. He said his younger brother and son had then gone to fetch it. “As a family we were devastated by the news and even now we find it difficult to believe that the two boys are no more,” said the grieving father and brother.  “Both of them were great children who were loved by everyone in the family — we were very proud of them.” He said the family were still discussing funeral arrangements. KwaZulu-Natal education spokesperson Kwazi Mthethwa said they were informed of the accident yesterday and that Education MEC Mthandeni Dlungwane sends his “heartfelt condolences to the family and friends of the deceased pupils”. KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said four counts of culpable homicide were opened at Greytown police station on Saturday. He said the four teens had been driving from Muden towards Greytown when the driver allegedly lost control of the car. It is unclear who was driving the vehicle at the time of the crash. • In another incident on Saturday, a seven-year-old girl was knocked over and killed in the Pietermaritzburg CBD. KwaZulu Private Ambulance Pietermaritzburg branch manager Collin Watson said the girl had died on impact at the corner of Chief Albert Luthuli Street and Langalibalele Street.