Rugby fans will excitedly choose between the black and white of the Sharks or the blue and white hoops of Western Province on Saturday, but it won’t be so easy for Sonja du Preez of Durban. Sonja’s husband and her twin sons are doing battle for the Sharks in the Currie Cup final at King’s Park in Durban at 4 pm on Saturday, while her eldest son will be fighting against them in Western Province colours. “I think she will be giving all of us the same amount of support for the match,” Jean-Luc du Preez said diplomatically about his mother’s dilemma this weekend. Jean-Luc, his twin Daniel and father Robert senior, who is the Sharks coach, have all helped the Sharks reach the Currie Cup final for the first time in four years. They have won 11 of the 13 matches they have played this season, but standing opposite them on Saturday will be the eldest Du Preez son, Robert junior, who has done equally well in Province’s progression this season. Robert junior had a great individual game when Province beat the Sharks in Durban two weeks ago in the last leg of the league section of the competition. And he may have good reason to try and kill off the Sharks again this week because they did not give him a senior contract years ago after he came through their junior department. He eventually signed for Western Province and is now involved in a major family sporting duel. Jean-Luc added: “Obviously, my mother is very proud of all of us for making it to the final of the competition. She has always had a soft spot for Robert (junior) and obviously for him not being here but alone in the Western Cape. “There has been a bit of banter in the family throughout the week.  “Robert (junior) always seems to play well against my father and apparently he also did very well against him when he played for Maties against a Pukke team that was coached by dad in the past, but, hopefully, that won’t happen again this week.” Jean-Luc added that his mother was proud of the way Robert junior played against them two weeks ago and she was really looking forward to this week’s clash. Meanwhile, the Sharks have been urging all KwaZulu-Natalians to get behind them for the match.  To this end, Friday will be ‘Black and White Friday’ and people are urged to wear their Sharks gear to work or school and send pictures to the club via Facebook. Those who take the best pictures stand a chance to win a visit by four Sharks players.