It is time men understand that they “do not own women”. This was said on Wednesday by high court Judge Anton van Zyl when he sentenced former policeman Boysie Dladla (32) to an effective 18 years in jail for the execution-style murder of his ex-girlfriend Zandile Mahlaba and attempted murder of her new boyfriend Prince Mosia. During legal arguments ahead of sentencing, Van Zyl said there seems to be an increase of late in attacks and the killing of women.  “I seem to have dealt with an inordinate number of them,” he said, pointing out that this week the court set a trial date for another man charged with murdering his spouse. The reason Dladla was not jailed for life was because the shooting was not pre-planned. Dladla used his police issue 9 mm pistol to shoot the victims on the night of September 6, 2015. The court heard Dladla was a policeman for five years until his arrest for the shooting, when he was “given the choice to face a disciplinary inquiry or resign” and chose the latter.  Prior to that he was a truck driver. Dladla’s advocate Shane Matthews said Dladla still “does not accept” the court’s verdict that he is guilty of murder, and insists Mahlaba was shot as a result of a struggle for his gun.  Matthews added however that while not admitting guilt “as is his right”, Dladla was remorseful for what happened.  He said this was demonstrated by the fact that afterwards he shot himself through the jaw.  Matthews said the fact the bullet did not “go through his brain” or cause a more serious injury was because it was deflected by a bone, and not because it wasn’t a genuine attempt at suicide. Van Zyl accepted the evidence of Mahlaba’s brother, Thubelinhle, and Mosia who both said that while talking to Mahlaba, Dladla had suddenly pulled out his gun, placed it on the top of her head and pulled the trigger, killing her.  He then deliberately aimed the weapon at Mosia and pursued him, firing at him as he fled, eventually wounding him in his side, causing him to fall down. Passing sentence, the judge said the fact that Mosia was not also killed was in no way due to “lack of effort” on the part of Dladla.  He agreed with state advocate Dorian Paver that there was no justification for imposing less than the minimum prescribed sentences on Dladla for his crimes. Van Zyl said the evidence made it clear the motive for the shooting was that Zandile Mahlaba told Dladla she was no longer in love with him and did not want to continue a relationship with him. She was then involved with Mosia.  “It is the right of a woman to reject a man’s advances ... “By pursuing the deceased [Mahlaba] as he [Dladla] did he not only violated her rights, he totally disregarded them and looked at his self interest only.” The judge said Dladla’s “selfish” words to Mahlaba were that if she would not have him they should “end” it for both of them.  “It is not for the likes of him to decide that if a young woman ... won’t have him that nobody else should and that he should rather kill her,” said the judge. Prince Mosia told The Witness after the case he was “happy” that Dladla was found guilty and has gone to jail. However he felt he “deserved life”.  Thubelihle Mahlaba, who also attended the sentencing with other family members, said “18 years is better than nothing” but would have preferred him to get life. He added that it has been traumatic for his mother to see Dladla “still walking around” and the fact that he is now going to jail will help her. 