The municipality on Friday took to the streets to take a stand against filth. Numerous municipal units led by the Msunduzi mayor Themba Njilo dressed in orange overalls, with gloves and a broom, embarked on a cleaning campaign in different areas of the city. His overalls bore the message “Play your part. Keep our city clean.” The Witness has published a number of articles recently revealing that many businesses were moving out of the city centre as a result of the rapid urban decay.  The municipal team rolled up their sleeves and used brooms and spades to collect the dirt on the streets.  A group worked to clean the New Rank taxi rank on Church Street, which was strewn with garbage and rotten food. Cleaners said there was a strong smell of urine near the rank.  As people spotted the mayor among the clean-up team, they smiled and greeted him. He beamed back at them and chatted to them as he picked up dirt along the way.  Njilo said that this was just the beginning, and that the municipality is planning more of these projects. He told Weekend Witness that last Friday they had a similar campaign in the city centre, and said that business owners were positive about the initiative. “Business owners should report vagrants who sleep on their pavements and door steps to the municipality,” said Njilo. He urged businesses to also be involved in the campaign and encouraged other government departments to embark on their own cleaning campaigns.  He said the problem was that the city was hit with a high volume of filth during the day.  “We do clean the city at night.”  “If business owners can also take responsibility and clean the pavements of the buildings they operate in, that would make a huge difference,” said Njilo. Njilo said the city was spear-heading a City Business District-Problem Building programme. He said the programme would deal with all the neglected and dilapidated structures that do not conform to the city’s beautiful architectural heritage.  “The municipality will roll out a Strategic Land Acquisition Programme that will acquire all strategic sites and buildings in the city centre to encourage strategic planning and open up for investment in the city,” said Njilo. The mayor encouraged those who reside within the city and business people in the CBD to join the movement and clean up the city centre. The City departments involved were human settlements, local economic development, regulation compliance and environmental health, City entities, Town Planning and Environmental Management and Land Management Office, Tourism Hub and Gedvi.