Msunduzi Municipality’s executive committee on Thursday gave the thumbs up to spending over R500 000 for a monthly radio slot of just five minutes. This, they said, was necessary to counter negative publicity about the City printed in The Witness.  The five-minute slot on Ukhozi FM, which will cost R558 691 per feature, received support in spite of an outcry from the DA and IFP, who said it was a waste of public funds. ANC councillors argued that the five minutes of airtime would allow mayor Themba Njilo to counter the recent negative reports about the city. The Witness was singled out by ANC councillors, who accused the newspaper of only reporting negative things about the city. “I want to move in support of the proposal, since we have a problem with a local newspaper [which does] not communicate stories the way we told them. The Witness, especially, [does] not report the way we give them stories and we are very unhappy with them,” said deputy mayor Thobani Zuma. Exco member Eunice Majola said the slot would give the mayor an opportunity to respond to the negative articles published by The Witness. DA councillor Sibongiseni Majola said if the intention was to communicate with Msunduzi residents, the city should have bought a slot on one of the two local radio stations. “I do not think that someone who is in eThekwini will be worried about what is happening here in Msunduzi. They have a bigger budget compared to us which they need to worry about.” He said Richards Bay is “progressing more than we are doing, so they have no interest in what we are saying”. He said the fact that Ukhozi FM had a huge listenership in the country, did not mean that it had a huge listenership in Pietermaritzburg and surrounding areas. Majola said the council should take legal action against The Witness if they feel the newspaper has broken media codes and ethics. IFP councillor Thinasonke Ntombela said it would be wrong for the City to purchase the slot simply to counter the articles published by The Witness. He said five minutes would not be sufficient time for the mayor to communicate properly with residents. “Residents will not even get a chance to ask questions,” he said. Acting municipal manager Sizwe Hadebe said the radio slot was important for the city’s image. “Msunduzi is a capital city. As a capital city, it aims to take its rightful place.” He said investors from other provinces needed to know about the city’s programmes. The proposal drafted by the communications unit was first tabled to Exco earlier this month, but was withdrawn after an outcry from opposition parties. The report said: “As the face of the municipality the city mayor is always compromised by the negative publicity that the municipality experiences on a regular basis. The proposed project is supported and will benefit the municipality and uplift the integrity of the city mayor’s office”.